[<< Luke 5](Luke%205.md)  |  [Luke 7 >>](Luke%207.md)

### Chapter 6
###### 1
And it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve who were ordained of him were with him, and certain women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities — Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, and Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod’s steward, and Susanna — and many others who ministered unto him with their substance.

###### 2
And when many people were gathered together, and had come to him out of every city, he spoke by a parable, saying, A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell by the wayside and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock, and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away because it lacked moisture. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it and choked it. And others fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bore fruit a hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He who has ears to hear, let him hear!

###### 3
And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be? And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to others, in parables — that seeing, they might not see, and hearing, they might not understand. Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. That which fell by the wayside are they who hear, and the Devil comes and takes away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. That which fell on the rock are they who, when they hear, receive the word with joy, and they have no root, but for a while believe, and in a time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they who, when they have heard, go forth and are choked with cares, and riches, and pleasures of life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that which fell on the good ground are they who receive the word in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep what they hear and bring forth fruit with patience.

###### 4
For no man, when he has lit a candle, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed, but sets it on a candlestick, that they who enter in may see the light. For nothing is secret which shall not be made manifest, neither hidden which shall not be made known and go abroad. Take heed therefore how you hear, for whoever receives, to him shall be given. And whoever receives not, from him shall be taken even that which he seems to have.

###### 5
Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not speak to him because of the multitude. And some who stood by said unto him, Your mother and your brethren stand outside, desiring to see you. And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are those who hear the word of God and do it.

###### 6
Now it came to pass, on a certain day, that he went into a ship with his disciples, and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake and they launched forth. But as they sailed, he fell asleep. And there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with fear and were in danger. And they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, Master we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm. And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they, being afraid, wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commands even the winds and water and they obey him.

###### 7
And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee. And when he went forth to land, there met him, out of the city, a certain man who had devils for a long time; and he would wear no clothes, neither dwelled in a house, but in the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of God most high! I implore you, torment me not! For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man, for ofttimes it had caught him, and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters, and he broke the bands and was driven of the Devil into the wilderness. Jesus asked him, saying, What is your name? And he said, Legion, because many devils had entered into him.

###### 8
And there was there a herd of many swine feeding on the mountain. And they implored him that he would suffer them to enter into the swine, and he suffered them. And they implored him also that he would not command them to go out into the deep. And he said unto them, Come out of the man. Then went the devils out of the man and entered into the swine. And the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake and were drowned.

###### 9
When they who fed the swine saw what was done, they fled, and went and told the people in the city and in the country. Then they went out to see what was done, and came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils had departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid. They also who saw the miracle told them by what means he who was possessed of the devils was healed. Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round about implored Jesus to depart from them, for they were taken with great fear. And Jesus went up into the ship and returned back again.

###### 10
Now the man out of whom the devils had departed implored him that he might be with him, but Jesus sent him away, saying, Return to your own house, and show how great things God has done unto you. And he went his way, and published throughout the whole city how great things Jesus had done unto him. And it came to pass that when Jesus had returned, that the people received him, for they were all waiting for him. And behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue. And he fell down at Jesus’ feet and implored him that he would come into his house, for he had only one daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went, the people crowded him.

###### 11
And a woman having a discharge of blood for twelve years — who had spent all her possessions upon physicians, neither could be healed of any — came behind Jesus and touched the border of his garment, and immediately her discharge of blood ceased. And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they who were with him said, Master, the multitude crowd you and press upon you, and you say, Who touched me? And Jesus said, Someone has touched me, for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me. And when the woman found that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto him, before all the people, for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately. And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort. Your faith has made you whole. Go in peace.

###### 12
While he yet spoke, there comes one from the ruler of the synagogue’s house, saying to him, Your daughter is dead; trouble not the Master. But Jesus heard him and he said unto the ruler of the synagogue, Fear not; believe only, and she shall be made whole. And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in save Peter, and Jacob, and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden. And all wept and bewailed her; but he said, Weep not, for she is not dead, but sleeps. And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead. And he put them all out, and he took her by the hand, and he called, saying, Maid, arise. And her spirit came again, and she arose immediately, and he commanded to give her food. And her parents were astonished, but he charged them that they should tell no man what was done.