[<< Section 57](Section%2057.md)  |  [Section 59 >>](Section%2059.md)

### SECTION 58

*A revelation given at Hiram, Ohio, 3 November 1831, through Joseph Smith Jr.*

###### 1
Hearken, O you people of my church, says the Lord your God, and hear the word of the Lord concerning you, the Lord who shall suddenly come to his temple, the Lord who shall come down upon the world with a curse to judgment, yea, upon all the nations that forget God and upon all the ungodly among you, for he shall make bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of their God. Wherefore, prepare yourselves, prepare yourselves, O you my people, sanctify yourselves, gather yourselves together, O you people of my church upon the land of Zion, all you that have not been commanded to tarry. Go out from Babylon, be clean that bear the vessels of the Lord. Call your solemn assemblies and speak often one to another, and let every man call upon the name of the Lord.

###### 2
Yea, verily I say unto you again, the time has come when the voice of the Lord is unto you: Go out of Babylon, gather yourselves out from among the nations, from the four winds, from one end of Heaven to the other. Send forth the elders of my church unto the nations which are afar off, unto the islands of the sea. Send forth unto foreign lands, call upon all nations, firstly upon the gentiles and then upon the Jews. And behold and lo, this shall be their cry, and the voice of the Lord unto all people: Go forth unto the land of Zion, that the borders of my people may be enlarged, and that her stakes may be strengthened, and that Zion may go forth unto the regions round about. Yea, let the cry go forth among all people: Awake and arise and go forth to meet the Bridegroom. Behold and lo, the Bridegroom comes, go out to meet him; prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord. Watch, therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour. Let them therefore which are among the gentiles flee unto Zion, and let them who be of Judah flee unto Jerusalem, unto the mountains of the Lord’s house. Go out from among the nations, even from Babylon, from the midst of wickedness, which is spiritual Babylon. But verily thus says the Lord: Let not your flight be in haste, but let all things be prepared before you; and he that goes, let him not look back, lest sudden destruction shall come upon him.

###### 3
Hearken and hear, O you inhabitants of the earth, and listen you elders of my church together, and hear the voice of the Lord, for he calls upon all men and he commands all men everywhere to repent. For behold, the Lord God has sent forth the angel crying through the midst of Heaven, saying, Prepare the way of the Lord and make his paths straight, for the hour of his coming is nigh, when the Lamb shall stand upon Mount Zion and with him a hundred and forty-four thousand, having his Father’s name written in their foreheads. Wherefore, prepare yourselves for the coming of the Bridegroom. Go all you, go out to meet him, for behold, he shall stand upon the mount of Olivet and upon the mighty ocean, even the great deep, and upon the islands of the sea, and upon the land of Zion. And he shall utter his voice out of Zion and he shall speak from Jerusalem, and his voice shall be heard among all people and it shall be a voice as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder which shall break down the mountains, and the valleys shall not be found. He shall command the great deep, and it shall be driven back into the north countries and the islands shall become one land, and the land of Jerusalem and the land of Zion shall be turned back into their own place, and the earth shall be like as it was in the days before it was divided. And the Lord, even the Savior, shall stand in the midst of his people and shall reign over all flesh. And they who are in the north countries shall come in remembrance before the Lord, and their prophets shall hear his voice and shall no longer stay themselves, and they shall smite the rocks, and the ice shall flow down at their presence, and a highway shall be cast up in the midst of the great deep. Their enemies shall become a prey unto them, and in the barren deserts there shall come forth pools of living water and the parched ground shall no longer be a thirsty land. And they shall bring forth their rich treasures unto the children of Ephraim, my servants, and the boundaries of the everlasting hills shall tremble at their presence, and there shall they fall down and be crowned with glory, even in Zion, by the hands of the servants of the Lord, even the children of Ephraim, and they shall be filled with songs of everlasting joy. Behold, this is the blessing of the everlasting God upon the heads of the tribes of Israel, and the richer blessing upon the head of Ephraim and his fellows. And they also of the tribe of Judah, after their pain, shall be sanctified in holiness before the Lord, to dwell in his presence day and night, for ever and ever.

###### 4
And now verily says the Lord: That these things might be known among you, O inhabitants of the earth, I have sent forth mine angel flying through the midst of Heaven, having the everlasting gospel, who has appeared unto some and has committed it unto man, who shall appear unto many that dwell on the earth. And this gospel shall be preached unto every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. And the servants of God shall go forth, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come! And worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountain of waters, calling upon the Lord day and night, saying: Oh that you would rend the heavens, that you would come down, that the mountains might flow down at your presence. And it shall be answered upon their heads, for the presence of the Lord shall be as the melting fire that burns and as the fire which causes the waters to boil.

###### 5
O Lord, you shall come down to make your name known to your adversary and all nations shall tremble at your presence when you do terrible things that they look not for. Yea, when you come down and the mountains flow down at your presence, you shall meet him who rejoices and works righteousness, who remembers you in your ways. For since the beginning of the world has not man heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither has any eye seen, O God, besides you, how great things you have prepared for him that waits for you.

###### 6
And it shall be said, Who is this that comes down from God in Heaven with dyed garments, yea, from the regions which are not known, clothed in his glorious apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength? And he shall say, I am he who spoke in righteousness, mighty to save. And the Lord shall be red in his apparel, and his garments like him that treads in the winevat, and so great shall be the glory of his presence that the sun shall hide his face in shame, and the moon shall be blown out, and the stars shall be hurled from their place. And his voice shall be heard: I have trodden the winepress alone, and have brought judgment upon all people, and none were with me, and I have trampled them in my fury and I did tread upon them in my anger, and their blood have I sprinkled upon my garments and have stained all my raiment, for this was the day of vengeance which was in my heart, and now the year of my redeemed is come. And they shall mention the loving kindness of their Lord and all that he has bestowed upon them, according to his goodness and according to his loving kindness, for ever and ever. In all their affliction he was afflicted and the Angel of his Presence saved them. And in his love and in his pity he redeemed them, and did bear them, and did carry them all the days of old; yea, and Enoch also, and they who were with him, the prophets that were before him; and Noah also, and they who were before him; and Moses also, and they who were before him; and from Moses to Elijah, and from Elijah to John, who were with Christ in his resurrection; and the holy apostles, with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, shall be in the presence of the Lamb. And the graves of the saints shall be opened and they shall come forth and stand on the right hand of the Lamb when he shall stand upon Mount Zion and upon the holy city, the New Jerusalem, and they shall sing the song of the Lamb, day and night, for ever and ever.

###### 7
And for this cause — that men might be made partakers of the glories which were to be revealed, the Lord sent forth the fullness of his gospel and his everlasting covenant, reasoning in plainness and simplicity to prepare the weak for those things which are coming upon the earth, and for the Lord’s errand in the days when the weak should confound the wise, and the little one become a strong nation, and two should put their tens of thousands to flight. By the weak things of the earth, the Lord should thresh the nations of the earth by the power of his spirit. And for this cause these commandments were given. They were commanded to be kept from the world in the day that they were given, but now are to go forth unto all flesh, and this according to the mind and the will of the Lord, who rules over all flesh.

###### 8
And unto him that repents and sanctifies himself before the Lord shall be given eternal life, and upon them that hearken not to the voice of the Lord shall be fulfilled that which was written by the prophet Moses, that they should be cut off from among the people. And also that which was written by the prophet Malachi: For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, says the Lord of Hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. Wherefore, this shall be the answer of the Lord unto them: In that day when I came unto my own, no man among you received me, and you were driven out. When I called again, there was none of you to answer, yet my arm was not shortened at all that I could not redeem, neither my power to deliver. Behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a wilderness, their fish stink and die for thirst. I clothe the heavens with blackness and make sackcloth their covering. And this shall you have of my hand. You shall lie down in sorrow. Behold and lo, there is none to deliver you, for you obeyed not my voice when I called to you out of the Heavens. You believed not my servants, and when they were sent unto you, you received them not. Wherefore, they sealed up the testimony and bound up the law, and you were delivered over unto darkness. These shall go away into outer darkness, where there is weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth. Behold, the Lord your God has spoken it. Amen.