[[1 Chronicles 10.md|<< 1 Chronicles 10]]  |  [[1 Chronicles 12.md|1 Chronicles 12 >>]]

### Chapter 11
###### 1
So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon, his son, king over Israel. And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, with the priests and the Levites.

###### 2
Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and upward. And their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty-eight thousand, of whom twenty-four thousand were to set forward the work of the house of the Lord, and six thousand were officers and judges. Moreover, four thousand were porters, and four thousand praised the Lord with the instruments which I made, said David, for giving praise. And David divided them into courses among the sons of Levi, namely Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

###### 3
Of the Gershonites were Ladan and Shimei. The sons of Ladan: the chief was Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel — three. The sons of Shimei: Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran — three. These were the chief of the fathers of Ladan. And the sons of Shimei were Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei. And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second, but Jeush and Beriah had not many sons, therefore they were in one reckoning, according to their father’s house.

###### 4
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel — four. The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was separated that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons for ever, to burn incense before the Lord, to minister unto him, and to bless in his name for ever. Now concerning Moses, the man of God, his sons were named of the tribe of Levi. The sons of Moses were Gershom and Eliezer. Of the sons of Gershom, Shebuel was the chief, and the sons of Eliezer — Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. Of the sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief. Of the sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. Of the sons of Uzziel: Micah the first and Isshiah the second.

###### 5
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. And Eleazar died and had no sons, but daughters. And their brethren, the sons of Kish, took them. The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth — three.

###### 6
These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers — even the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of names by their polls — that did the work for the service of the house of the Lord, from the age of twenty years and upward. For David said, The Lord God of Israel has given rest unto his people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever, and also unto the Levites; they shall no more carry the tabernacle, nor any vessels of it for the service thereof.

###### 7
For by the last words of David, the Levites were numbered from twenty years old and above, because their office was to wait on the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the Lord: in the courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things, and the work of the service of the house of God; both for the showbread, and for the fine flour for meal offering, and for the unleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, and for that which is fried, and for all manner of measure and size; and to stand every morning to thank and praise the Lord, and likewise at evening; and to offer all burnt sacrifices unto the Lord in the Sabbaths, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number, according to the order commanded unto them, continually before the Lord; and that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of the sons of Aaron their brethren, in the service of the house of the Lord.

###### 8
Now these are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no children; therefore, Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest’s office. And David distributed them, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their offices in their service. And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar, and thus were they divided. Among the sons of Eleazar there were sixteen chief men of the house of their fathers, and eight among the sons of Ithamar, according to the house of their fathers. Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for the governors of the sanctuary and governors of the house of God were of the sons of Eleazar and of the sons of Ithamar.

###### 9
And Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel the scribe, one of the Levites, wrote them before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites — one principal household being taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.

###### 10
Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah, the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah, the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez, the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel, the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul, the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah. These were the orderings of them in their service to come into the house of the Lord, according to their manner, under Aaron their father, as the Lord God of Israel had commanded him.

###### 11
And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: of the sons of Amram: Shubael. Of the sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah. Concerning Rehabiah, of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was Isshiah. Of the Izharites: Shelomoth. Of the sons of Shelomoth: Jahath. And the sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. Of the sons of Uzziel: Micah. Of the sons of Micah: Shamir. The brother of Micah was Isshiah. Of the sons of Isshiah: Zechariah. The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Jaaziah: Beno. The sons of Merari by Jaaziah: Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri. Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sons. Concerning Kish, the son of Kish was Jerahmeel. The sons also of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after the house of their fathers. These likewise cast lots alongside their brethren, the sons of Aaron, in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites — even the principal fathers alongside their younger brethren.

###### 12
Moreover, David and the captains of the host separated to the service of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals. And the number of the workmen according to their service was: of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah — the sons of Asaph under the hands of Asaph, who prophesied according to the order of the king; of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah — six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp, to give thanks and to praise the Lord; of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth. All these were the sons of Heman, the king’s seer, in the words of God, to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

###### 13
All these were under the hands of their father for song in the house of the Lord, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the service of the house of God, according to the king’s order to Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman. So the number of them with their brethren, that were instructed in the songs of the Lord, even all that were skilled, was two hundred eighty-eight.

###### 14
And they cast lots, side by side, as well the small as the great, the teacher as the scholar. Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, who with his brethren and sons were twelve; the third to Zaccur — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the fourth to Izri — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the fifth to Nethaniah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the sixth to Bukkiah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the seventh to Jesharelah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the eighth to Jeshaiah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the ninth to Mattaniah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the tenth to Shimei — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the eleventh to Azarel — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the twelfth to Hashabiah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the thirteenth to Shubael — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the fourteenth to Mattithiah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the fifteenth to Jerimoth — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the sixteenth to Hananiah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the seventeenth to Joshbekashah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the eighteenth to Hanani — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the nineteenth to Mallothi — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the twentieth to Eliathah — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the twenty-first to Hothir — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the twenty-second to Giddalti — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the twenty-third to Mahazioth — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve; the twenty-fourth to Romamtiezer — he, his sons, and his brethren were twelve.

###### 15
Concerning the divisions of the porters: of the Korahites was Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. And the sons of Meshelemiah were Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh. Moreover, the sons of Obededom were Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethanel the fifth, Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth; for God blessed him. Also, unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled throughout the house of their father, for they were mighty men of valor. The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brethren were strong men — Elihu and Semachiah. All these of the sons of Obededom — they, and their sons, and their brethren — able men for strength for the service, were sixty-two of Obededom. And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong men — eighteen. Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons: Shimri the chief — for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him the chief — Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth. All the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.

###### 16
Among these were the divisions of the porters, even among the chief men, having watches one against another to minister in the house of the Lord.

###### 17
And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to the house of their fathers, for every gate. And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his son, a wise counselor, they cast lots, and his lot came out northward. To Obededom southward, and to his sons the house of Asuppim. To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate Shallecheth by the causeway of the ascent guard against guard.

###### 18
Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and toward Asuppim two and two. At the porch westward, four at the causeway and two at the porch.

###### 19
These are the divisions of the porters among the sons of Kore, and among the sons of Merari.

###### 20
And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God and over the treasures of the dedicated things.

###### 21
As concerning the sons of Ladan — the sons of the Gershonite Ladan, chief fathers even of Ladan the Gershonite — were Jehieli. The sons of Jehieli: Zetham, and Joel his brother, who were over the treasures of the house of the Lord.

###### 22
Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites: And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler of the treasuries. And his brethren by Eliezer: Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son — which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures of the dedicated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host, had dedicated; out of the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintain the house of the Lord. And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah had dedicated, and whoever had dedicated anything, it was under the hand of Shelomith and of his brethren.

###### 23
Of the Izharites: Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges.

###### 24
And of the Hebronites: Hashabiah and his brethren, men of valor — a thousand seven hundred were officers among them of Israel on this side of Jordan westward, in all the business of the Lord and in the service of the king. Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even among the Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the fortieth year of the reign of David, they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valor at Jazer of Gilead. And his brethren, men of valor, were two thousand seven hundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, for every matter pertaining to God and affairs of the king.

###### 25
Now the children of Israel after their number — that is, the chief fathers, and captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officers that served the king in any matter of the courses, who came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year (of every course were twenty-four thousand):

###### 26
Over the first course for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel, and in his course were twenty-four thousand. Of the children of Perez was the chief of all the captains of the host for the first month. And over the course of the second month was Dodai, an Ahohite, and of his course was Mikloth also the ruler; in his course likewise were twenty-four thousand. The third captain of the host for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, a chief priest, and in his course were twenty-four thousand. (This is that Benaiah who was mighty among the thirty, and above the thirty, and in his course was Ammizabad his son.) The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel, the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him; and in his course were twenty-four thousand. The fifth captain for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite, and in his course were twenty-four thousand. The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, and in his course were twenty-four thousand. The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim, and in his course were twenty-four thousand. The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites, and in his course were twenty-four thousand. The ninth captain for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anathothite, of the Benjamites, and in his course were twenty four-thousand. The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahites, and in his course were twenty-four thousand. The eleventh captain for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim, and in his course were twenty-four thousand. The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel, and in his course were twenty-four thousand.

###### 27
Furthermore, over the tribes of Israel, the ruler of the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri; of the Simeonites: Shephatiah the son of Maacah; of the Levites: Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; of the Aaronites: Zadok; of Judah: Elihu, one of the brethren of David; of Issachar: Omri the son of Michael; of Zebulun: Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; of Naphtali: Jerimoth the son of Azriel; of the children of Ephraim: Hoshea the son of Azaziah; of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Joel the son of Pedaiah; of the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Iddo the son of Zechariah; of Benjamin: Jaasiel the son of Abner; of Dan: Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel.

###### 28
But David took not the number of them from twenty years old and under because the Lord had said he would increase Israel like to the stars of the heavens. Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he finished not, because there fell wrath for it against Israel, neither was the number put in the account of the chronicles of king David.

###### 29
And over the king’s treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel. And over the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the castles was Jonathan the son of Uzziah. And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub. And over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite. Over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite. And over the olive trees and the sycamore trees that were in the low plains was Baalhanan the Gederite. And over the cellars of oil was Joash. And over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite. And over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai. Over the camels also was Obil the Ishmaelite. And over the asses was Jehdeiah the Meronothite. And over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagrite. All these were the rulers of the substance which was king David’s.

###### 30
Also Jonathan, David’s uncle, was a counselor, a wise man, and a scribe. And Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king’s sons. And Ahithophel was the king’s counselor. And Hushai the Archite was the king’s companion. And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada, the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. And the general of the king’s army was Joab.