[[Preface|<< Preface]]  |  [[Genesis 2|Genesis 2 >>]]

# GENESIS
### Chapter 1

*The words of God which he spoke unto Moses at a time when Moses was caught up into an exceedingly high mountain, and he saw God face to face, and he talked with him; and the glory of God was upon him, therefore he could endure his presence.*

###### 1
And God spoke unto Moses, saying, Behold, I am the Lord God Almighty, and Endless is my name, for I am without beginning of days or end of years — and is this not endless? And behold, you are my son. Wherefore, look, and I will show you the workmanship of my hands — but not all, for my works are without end, and also my words, for they never cease. Wherefore, no man can behold all my works except he behold all my glory, and no man can behold all my glory and afterward remain in the flesh on the earth. And I have a work for you, Moses my son, and you are in the similitude of my Only Begotten. And my Only Begotten is and shall be the Savior, for he is full of grace and truth, but there is no other God beside me. And all things are present with me, for I know them all. And now behold, this one thing I show unto you, Moses my son, for you are in the world; and now I show it to you.

###### 2
And it came to pass that Moses looked and beheld the world upon which he was created. And as Moses beheld the world, and the ends thereof, and all the children of men who are and who were created, of the same he greatly marveled and wondered. And the presence of God withdrew from Moses, that his glory was not upon him, and Moses was left unto himself. And as he was left unto himself, he fell unto the earth. And it came to pass that it was for the space of many hours before he did again receive his natural strength like unto man. And he said unto himself, Now for this once I know that man is nothing, which thing I never had supposed. But now my eyes have beheld God — but not my natural eyes, but my spiritual, for my natural eyes could not have beheld, for I should have withered and died in his presence. But his glory was upon me and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him.

###### 3
And now it came to pass that when Moses had said these words, behold, Satan came tempting him, saying, Moses, son of man, worship me. But Moses lifted up his eyes and looked upon Satan, and said, Who are you? For behold, I am a son of God in the similitude of his Only Begotten, and where is your glory that I should worship you? For behold, I could not look upon God except his glory should come upon me and I were transfigured before him, but I can look upon you in the natural man. Surely, blessed be the name of my God, for his spirit has not altogether withdrawn from me. I say, where is your glory? For it is blackness unto me, and I can judge between you and God. For God said unto me, Worship God, for him only shall you serve. Depart from here Satan, deceive me not. For God said unto me, You are after the similitude of my Only Begotten. And he also gave me commandment when he called unto me out of the burning bush, saying, Call upon God in the name of my Only Begotten and worship me. And again Moses said, I will not cease to call upon God; I have other things to inquire of him. For his glory has been upon me and it is glory unto me, wherefore I can judge between him and you. Depart from here, Satan.

###### 4
And now when Moses had said these words, Satan cried with a loud voice, and tore upon the earth, and commanded, saying, I am the Only Begotten; worship me! And it came to pass that Moses began to fear exceedingly; and as he began to fear, he saw the bitterness of hell. Nevertheless, calling upon God, he received strength, and he commanded, saying, Depart from here, Satan; for this one God only will I worship, who is the God of glory. And now Satan began to tremble, and the earth shook. And Moses received strength and called upon God in the name of his Son, saying to Satan, Depart from here. And it came to pass that Satan cried with a loud voice, with weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth, and departed from there — yea, from the presence of Moses, that he beheld him not. And now of this thing Moses bore record; but because of wickedness, it is not had among the children of men.

###### 5
And it came to pass that when Satan had departed from the presence of Moses, that Moses lifted up his eyes unto Heaven, being filled with the holy ghost, which bears record of the Father and the Son. And calling upon the name of God, he beheld again his glory, for it rested upon him. And he heard a voice saying, Blessed are you Moses, for I, the Almighty, have chosen you. And you shall be made stronger than the many waters, for they shall obey your command even as my commandments. And behold, I am with you even to the end of your days, for you shall deliver my people from bondage, even Israel my chosen.

###### 6
And it came to pass, as the voice was still speaking, he cast his eyes and beheld the earth, yea, even all the face of it; and there was not a particle of it which he did not behold, discerning it by the spirit of God. And he beheld also the inhabitants thereof, and there was not a soul whom he beheld not. And he discerned them by the spirit of God, and their numbers were great, even as numberless as the sand upon the seashore. And he beheld many lands, and each land was called earth, and there were inhabitants upon the face thereof. And it came to pass that Moses called upon God, saying, Show me, I pray you, why these things are so and by whom you made them. And behold, the glory of God was upon Moses, that Moses stood in the presence of God, and he talked with him face to face. And the Lord God said unto Moses, For my own purpose have I made these things. Here is wisdom and it remains in me. And by the word of my power have I created them, who is my Only Begotten Son, full of grace and truth. And worlds without number have I created, and I also created them for my own purpose; and by the same I created them, who is my Only Begotten. And the first man of all men have I called Adam, which is many. But only an account of this earth and the inhabitants thereof give I unto you. For behold, there are many worlds which have passed away by the word of my power, and there are many also which now stand, and numberless are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them.

###### 7
And it came to pass that Moses spoke unto the Lord, saying, Be merciful unto your servant, O God, and tell me concerning this earth and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens; and then your servant will be content. And the Lord God spoke unto Moses of the heavens, saying, These are many and they cannot be numbered unto man, but they are numbered unto me for they are mine. And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come. And there is no end to my works, neither my words. For behold, this is my work and my glory: to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man. And now Moses, my son, I will speak unto you concerning this earth upon which you stand, and you shall write the things which I shall speak. And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as naught and take many of them from the book which you shall write, behold, I will raise up another like unto you, and they shall be had again among the children of men, among even as many as shall believe. These words were spoken unto Moses in the mount, the name of which shall not be known among the children of men.