[[John 11|<< John 11]]  |  [[Acts 2|Acts 2 >>]]

# THE ACTS OF THE APOSTLES
### Chapter 1
###### 1

The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach, until the day in which he was taken up, after he through the holy ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen — to whom also he showed himself alive after his sufferings by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God — and being with them when they were assembled together, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, says he, You have heard of me: for John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the holy ghost not many days after these.

###### 2
When they therefore had come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father has put in his own power; but you shall receive power after the holy ghost has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the furthest part of the earth.

###### 3
And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward Heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, who also said, You men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into Heaven? This same Jesus who is taken up from you into Heaven shall so come in like manner as you have seen him go into Heaven.

###### 4
Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a Sabbath day’s journey. And when they had come in, they went up into an upper room, where resided both Peter and Jacob, and John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, Jacob the son of Alphaeus and Simon Zelotes, and Judas the son of Jacob. These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.

###### 5
And in those days, Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples and said (the number of names together were about a hundred twenty), Men and brethren, this scripture needed to be fulfilled which the holy ghost, by the mouth of David, spoke before concerning Judas, who was guide to them who took Jesus, for he was numbered with us and had obtained part of this ministry. Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity, and falling headlong he burst asunder in the middle and all his bowels gushed out. And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem, insomuch as that field is called in their own tongue Akeldama — that is to say, the Field of Blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms: Let his habitation be desolate, and let no man dwell therein, and his bishopric let another take.

###### 6
Wherefore, of these men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection. And they appointed two: Joseph called Barsabas (who was surnamed Justus) and Matthias. And they prayed and said, You, Lord, who knows the hearts of all men, show which of these two you have chosen, that he may take part of this ministry and apostleship from which Judas, by transgression, fell, that he might go to his own place. And they gave forth their lots, and the lot fell upon Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.

###### 7
And when the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from Heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues as of fire, and it rested upon each of them. And they were all filled with the holy ghost and began to speak with other tongues as the spirit gave them utterance.

###### 8
And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men out of every nation under heaven. Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded because every man heard them speak in his own language. And they were all amazed, and marveled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these who speak Galileans? And how do we hear every man in our own tongue wherein we were born? Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judea and Cappadocia, in Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, in Egypt and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and converts, Cretes and Arabians — we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God. And they were all amazed and were perplexed, saying one to another, What does this mean? Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine.

###### 9
But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and said unto them, You men of Judea, and all you that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you and listen to my words; for these are not drunk as you suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day. But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel: And it shall come to pass in the last days, says God, I will pour out of my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my spirit, and they shall prophesy, and I will show wonders in heaven above and signs in the earth beneath: blood and fire and vapor of smoke; the sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before that great and notable day of the Lord come. And it shall come to pass that whoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.

###### 10
You men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth — a man approved of God among you by miracles, and wonders, and signs, which God did by him in your midst, as you yourselves also know — him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain, whom God has raised up, having loosed the pains of death because it was not possible that he should be held of it. For David speaks concerning him: I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand that I should not be moved; therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad. Moreover, also my flesh shall rest in hope because you will not leave my soul in prison, neither will you suffer your Holy One to see corruption. You have made known to me the ways of life, you shall make me full of joy with your countenance.

###### 11
Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulcher is with us unto this day. Therefore, being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that, of the fruit of his loins according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne, he (seeing this before) spoke of the resurrection of Christ — that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption. This Jesus has God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses. Therefore, being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the holy ghost, he has shed forth this which you now see and hear. For David is not ascended into the heavens, but he says himself, The Lord said unto my lord, Sit on my right hand until I make your foes your footstool. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made that same Jesus whom you have crucified both Lord and Christ.

###### 12
Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the holy ghost; for the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call. And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this corrupt generation.

###### 13
Then they who gladly received his word were baptized, and the same day, there were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles’ doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers. And fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things common, and sold their possessions and goods and parted them to all men, as every man had need. And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their food with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved.