[<< Luke 2](Luke%202)  |  [Luke 4 >>](Luke%204)

### Chapter 3
###### 1
Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover, and when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom to the feast. And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem. And Joseph and his mother knew not that he tarried, but they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day’s journey, and they sought him among his kindred and acquaintance. And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him.

###### 2
And it came to pass after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, and they were hearing him and asking him questions. And all who heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. And when his parents saw him, they were amazed. And his mother said unto him, Son, why have you thus dealt with us? Behold, your father and I have sought you sorrowing. And he said unto them, Why is it that you sought me? Did you not know that I must be about my Father’s business? And they understood not the saying which he spoke unto them. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them. And his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.

###### 3
Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar — Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene, Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests — now in this same year, the word of God came unto John, the son of Zacharias, in the wilderness. And he came into all the country about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins as it is written in the book of the prophet Isaiah.

###### 4
And these are the words, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord and make his paths straight; for behold and see, he shall come, as it is written in the book of the prophets, to take away the sins of the world, and to bring salvation unto the heathen nations; to gather together those who are lost, who are of the sheepfold of Israel, yea, even her dispersed and afflicted; and also to prepare the way and make possible the preaching of the gospel unto the gentiles, and to be a light unto all who sit in darkness, unto the furthest parts of the earth; to bring to pass the resurrection from the dead, and to ascend up on high to dwell on the right hand of the Father until the fullness of time, and the law and the testimony shall be sealed, and the keys of the kingdom shall be delivered up again unto the Father; to administer justice unto all, to come down in judgment upon all, and to convince all the ungodly of their ungodly deeds which they have committed. And all this in the day that he shall come, for it is a day of power. Yea, every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways made smooth, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God.

###### 5
Then said John to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, crying against them with a loud voice, saying, O generation of vipers, who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come! Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, Abraham is our father, we have kept the commandments of God and none can inherit the promises but the children of Abraham; for I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees. Every tree therefore which brings not forth good fruit shall be hewn down and cast into the fire.

###### 6
And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then? He answers and says unto them, He that has two coats, let him impart to him who has none. And he that has food, let him do likewise. Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him, Master, what shall we do? And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed unto you. For it is well known unto you, Theophilus, that after the manner of the Jews and according to the custom of their law in receiving money in the treasury, that out of the abundance which was received was appointed unto the poor, every man his portion. And after this manner did the publicans also; wherefore, John said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you. And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely; and be content with your wages.

###### 7
And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their hearts of John, whether he was the Christ or not, John answered, saying unto all, I indeed baptize you with water, but there comes one mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to untie. He shall baptize you with the holy ghost and with fire, whose winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his floor and will gather the wheat into his storehouse, but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable. And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people. But Herod the tetrarch — being reproved of him for Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done — added yet this above all: that he shut up John in prison.

###### 8
Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also came unto John. And being baptized of him and praying, the Heaven was opened and the holy ghost descended in bodily shape like a dove upon him. And a voice came from Heaven, which said, You are my Son; this day I have begotten you.

###### 9
And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, having lived with his father, being (as was supposed of the world) the son of Joseph, who was from the loins of Heli, who was from the loins of Matthat, who was the son of Levi, who was a descendant of Melchi, and of Jannai, and of Joseph, and of Mattathias, and of Amos, and of Nahum, and of Esli, and of Naggai, and of Maath, and of Mattathias, and of Semein, and of Joseph, and of Joda, and of Joanan, and of Rhesa, and of Zerubbabel, and of Shealtiel, who was the son of Neri, who was a descendant of Melchi, and of Addi, and of Cosam, and of Elmadam, and of Er, and of Joshua, and of Eliezer, and of Jorim, and of Matthat, and of Levi, and of Simeon, and of Judah, and of Joseph, and of Jonam, and of Eliakim, and of Melea, and of Menna, and of Mattatha, and of Nathan, and of David, and of Jesse, and of Obed, and of Boaz, and of Salmon, and of Nahshon, and of Amminadab, and of Ram, and of Hezron, and of Perez, and of Judah, and of Jacob, and of Isaac, and of Abraham, and of Terah, and of Nahor, and of Serug, and of Reu, and of Peleg, and of Eber, and of Selah, and of Cainan, and of Arphaxad, and of Shem, and of Noah, and of Lamech, and of Methuselah, and of Enoch, and of Jared, and of Mahalalel, and of Cainan, and of Enos, and of Seth, and of Adam, who was formed of God and the first man upon the earth.

###### 10
And Jesus, being full of the holy ghost, returned from Jordan and was led by the spirit into the wilderness. And after forty days, the devil came unto him to tempt him. And in those days he did eat nothing; and when they had ended, he afterward hungered. And the Devil said unto him, If you are the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread. And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.

###### 11
And the spirit took him up into a high mountain, and he beheld all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. And the Devil came unto him and said unto him, All this power will I give unto you, and the glory of them; for they are delivered unto me, and to whomever I desire, I give them. If you therefore will worship me, all shall be yours. Jesus answered and said unto him, Get behind me, Satan, for it is written: You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.

###### 12
And the spirit brought him to Jerusalem and set him on a pinnacle of the temple. And the Devil came unto him and said unto him, If you are the Son of God, cast yourself down from here, for it is written: He shall give his angels charge over you, to keep you. And in his hands they shall bear you up, lest at any time you dash your foot against a stone. And Jesus answering said unto him, It is written: You shall not test the Lord your God. And when the Devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season.