[<< Nehemiah 1](Nehemiah%201)  |  [Esther 1 >>](Esther%201)

### Chapter 2
###### 1
Then I came to the governors beyond the river and gave them the king’s letters. Now the king had sent captains of the army and horsemen with me. When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly that there had come a man to seek the welfare of the children of Israel. So I came to Jerusalem and was there three days. And I arose in the night, I and some few men with me, neither told I any man what my God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem, neither was there any beast with me save the beast that I rode upon. And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, even before the dragon well and to the dung port, and viewed the walls of Jerusalem which were broken down and the gates thereof were consumed with fire. Then I went on to the gate of the fountain and to the king’s pool, but there was no place for the beast that was under me to pass. Then went I up in the night by the brook and viewed the wall, and turned back and entered by the gate of the valley, and so returned. And the rulers knew not where I went or what I did, neither had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest that did the work.

###### 2
Then I said unto them, You see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lies waste and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach. Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me, as also the king’s words that he had spoken unto me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for this good work. But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian heard it, they laughed us to scorn, and despised us, and said, What is this thing that you do? Will you rebel against the king? Then I answered them and said unto them, The God of Heaven, he will prosper us, therefore we his servants will arise and build; but you have no portion, nor right, nor memorial in Jerusalem.

###### 3
Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests, and they built the sheep gate; they sanctified it and set up the doors of it — even unto the tower of Meah they sanctified it, unto the tower of Hananel. And next unto him built the men of Jericho. And next to them built Zaccur the son of Imri. But the fish gate did the sons of Hassenaah build, who also laid the beams thereof and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof. And next unto them repaired Meremoth the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz. And next unto them repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabeel. And next unto them repaired Zadok the son of Baana. And next unto them the Tekoites repaired, but their nobles put not their necks to the work of their Lord.

###### 4
Moreover, the old gate was repaired by Jehoiada the son of Paseah, and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah; they laid the beams thereof and set up the doors thereof, and the locks thereof, and the bars thereof. And next unto them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, unto the throne of the governor on this side of the river. Next unto him repaired Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of the goldsmiths. Next unto him also repaired Hananiah the son of the apothecaries. And they fortified Jerusalem unto the broad wall. And next unto them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem. And next unto them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, even opposite his house. And next unto him repaired Hattush the son of Hashabneiah. Malchijah the son of Harim and Hasshub the son of Pahathmoab repaired the other piece and the tower of the furnaces. And next unto him repaired Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters.

###### 5
The valley gate was repaired by Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah; they built it and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof, and a thousand cubits on the wall unto the dung gate. But the dung gate was repaired by Malchijah the son of Rechab, the ruler of part of Bethhaccerem; he built it and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof. But the gate of the fountain was repaired by Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of part of Mizpah; he built it, and covered it, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof, and the wall of the pool of Siloah by the king’s garden, and unto the stairs that go down from the city of David. After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of the half part of Bethzur, unto the place opposite the sepulchers of David, and to the pool that was made, and unto the house of the mighty. After him repaired the Levites — Rehum the son of Bani. Next unto him repaired Hashabiah, the ruler of the half part of Keilah, in his part. After him repaired their brethren — Bavvai the son of Henadad, the ruler of the half part of Keilah. And next to him repaired Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, another piece in front of the ascent to the armory at the turning. After him, Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired the other piece, from the turning unto the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest. After him repaired Meremoth the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, another piece from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end of the house of Eliashib. And after him repaired the priests — the men of the plain. After him repaired Benjamin and Hasshub in front of their house. After him repaired Azariah the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah, by his house. After him repaired Binnui the son of Henadad another piece from the house of Azariah unto the turning, even unto the corner, Palal the son of Uzai in front of the turning and the tower which projects out from the king’s high house that was by the court of the prison. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh (moreover, the temple servants dwelled in Ophel), unto the place in front of the water gate toward the east and the tower that projects out. After them the Tekoites repaired another piece in front of the great tower that projects out, even unto the wall of Ophel.

###### 6
From above the horse gate repaired the priests, every one in front of his house. After them repaired Zadok the son of Immer in front of his house. After him repaired also Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate. After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, another piece. After him repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah in front of his chamber. After him repaired Malchijah the goldsmith’s son unto the place of the temple servants and of the merchants, in front of the gate Miphkad, and to the ascent of the corner. And between the ascent of the corner unto the sheep gate repaired the goldsmiths and the merchants.

###### 7
But it came to pass that when Sanballat heard that we built the wall, he was angry and took great indignation, and mocked the Jews. And he spoke before his brethren and the army of Samaria and said, What are these feeble Jews doing? Will they fortify themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will they make an end in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of the rubbish which are burned? Now Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which they build, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall.

###### 8
Hear, O our God, for we are despised, and turn their reproach upon their own head, and give them for a prey in the land of captivity, and cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out from before you; for they have provoked you to anger before the builders. So built we the wall, and all the wall was joined together unto the half thereof, for the people had a mind to work.

###### 9
But it came to pass that when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and the Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites heard that the walls of Jerusalem were made up, and that the breaches began to be stopped, then they were very angry and conspired all of them together to come and to fight against Jerusalem and to hinder it. Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto our God and set a watch against them day and night because of them. And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens is decayed, and there is much rubbish, so that we are not able to build the wall. And our adversaries said, They shall not know, neither see, until we come in the midst among them and slay them, and cause the work to cease. And it came to pass that when the Jews who dwelled by them came, they said unto us ten times, From all places where you shall return unto us, they will be upon you. Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on the higher places, I even set the people after their families with their swords, their spears, and their bows. And I looked and rose up, and said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, Be not afraid of them. Remember the Lord, who is great and terrible, and fight for your brethren, your sons and your daughters, your wives and your houses.

###### 10
And it came to pass, when our enemies heard that it was known unto us and God had brought their counsel to naught, that we returned all of us to the wall, every one unto his work. And it came to pass from that time forth that the half of my servants labored in the work, and the other half of them held both the spears, the shields, and the bows, and the habergeons. And the rulers were behind all the house of Judah. They who built on the wall and they that bore burdens with those that loaded, everyone with one of his hands labored in the work, and with the other hand held a weapon. For the builders, everyone had his sword girded by his side and so built. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me. And I said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, The work is great and large, and we are separated upon the wall, one far from another. In what place therefore you hear the sound of the trumpet, assemble there unto us. Our God shall fight for us.

###### 11
So we labored in the work. And half of them held the spears from the rising of the morning until the stars appeared. Likewise, at the same time said I unto the people, Let everyone with his servant lodge within Jerusalem, that in the night they may be a guard to us, and labor on the day. So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us put off our clothes, saving that everyone put them off for washing.

###### 12
And there was a great cry of the people and of their wives against their brethren the Jews; for there were that said, We, our sons, and our daughters are many, therefore we take up grain for them, that we may eat and live. Some also there were that said, We have mortgaged our lands, vineyards, and houses, that we might buy grain because of the dearth. There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king’s tribute upon our lands and vineyards. Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as their children, and behold, we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought unto bondage already; neither is it in our power to redeem them, for other men have our lands and vineyards.

###### 13
And I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words. Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles and the rulers and said unto them, You exact usury, every one of his brother. And I set a great assembly against them. And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed our brethren the Jews who were sold unto the heathen, and will you even sell your brethren? Or shall they be sold unto us? Then held they their peace, and found nothing to answer. Also, I said, It is not good that you do. Ought you not to walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen our enemies? I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants might exact of them money and grain. I pray you, let us leave off this usury. Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, their vineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses; also the hundredth part of the money, and of the grain, the wine, and the oil that you exact of them. Then said they, We will restore unto them, and will require nothing of them, so will we do as you say. Then I called the priests and took an oath of them that they should do according to this promise. Also, I shook my lap and said, So God shake out every man from his house and from his labor that performs not this promise, even thus be he shaken out and emptied. And all the congregation said, Amen — and praised the Lord. And the people did according to this promise.

###### 14
Moreover, from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even unto the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes the king — that is, twelve years — I and my brethren have not eaten the bread of the governor. But the former governors that had been before me were burdensome unto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, besides forty shekels of silver. Yea, even their servants bore rule over the people, but so did not I because of the fear of God. Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we any land. And all my servants were gathered there unto the work. Moreover, there were at my table a hundred fifty of the Jews and rulers besides those that came unto us from among the heathen that are about us. Now that which was prepared for me daily was one ox and six choice sheep, also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days, store of all sorts of wine. Yet for all this I required not the bread of the governor because the bondage was heavy upon this people. Think upon me, my God, for good, according to all that I have done for this people.

###### 15
Now it came to pass, when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies heard that I had built the wall and there was no breach left therein — though at that time I had not set up the doors upon the gates — that Sanballat and Geshem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief. And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I am doing a great work, so that I cannot come down. Why should the work cease while I leave it and come down to you? Yet they sent unto me four times after this sort, and I answered them after the same manner. Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth time, with an open letter in his hand, wherein was written: It is reported among the heathen, and Geshem says you and the Jews think to rebel, for which cause you build the wall, that you may be their king according to these words. And you have also appointed prophets to preach of you at Jerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah. And now shall it be reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore and let us take counsel together. Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as you say, but you feign them out of your own heart. For they all made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it be not done. Now therefore, O God, strengthen my hands.

###### 16
Afterward I came unto the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah, the son of Mehetabel who was shut up, and he said, Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple, for they will come to slay you, yea, in the night will they come to slay you. And I said, Should such a man as I flee? And who is my enemy that such a man as I would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in. And behold, I perceived that God had not sent him, but that he pronounced this prophecy against me for Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him. Therefore, should I be afraid of him he hired, and do so as he said and sin, and that they might have me for an evil report, that they might reproach me? My God, think upon Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and on the prophetess Noadiah and the rest of the prophets that would have put me in fear.

###### 17
So the wall was finished in the twenty-fifth of Elul, in fifty-two days. And it came to pass that when all our enemies heard, and all the heathen that were about us saw, they were much cast down in their own eyes, for they perceived that this work was wrought of our God. Moreover, in those days, the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto Tobiah, and the letters of Tobiah came unto them; for there were many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah, and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah. Also, they reported his good deeds before me, and uttered my words to him. Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.

###### 18
Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed, that I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the palace, charge over Jerusalem, for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many. And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot; and while they stand by, let them shut the doors and bar them, and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, everyone in his watch and everyone in front of his house. Now the city was large and great, but the people few therein and the houses not built.

###### 19
And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found a register of the genealogy of them who came up at the first, and found written therein:

###### 20
These are the children of the province that went up out of the captivity, of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his city, who came with Zerubbabel, Joshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah.

###### 21
The number of the men of the people of Israel: the children of Parosh — two thousand one hundred seventy-two; the children of Shephatiah — three hundred seventy-two; the children of Arah — seven hundred seventy-five; the children of Pahathmoab (of the children of Jeshua and Joab) — two thousand eight hundred twelve; the children of Elam — a thousand two hundred fifty-four; the children of Zattu — nine hundred forty-five; the children of Zaccai — seven hundred sixty; the children of Bani — six hundred forty-two; the children of Bebai — six hundred twenty-three; the children of Azgad — a thousand two hundred twenty-two; the children of Adonikam — six hundred sixty-six; the children of Bigvai — two thousand fifty-six; the children of Adin — four hundred fifty-four; the children of Ater of Hezekiah) — ninety-eight; the children of Hashum — two hundred twenty-three; the children of Bezai — three hundred twenty-three; the children of Jorah — a hundred twelve; the children of Gibeon — ninety-five; the men of Bethlehem and Netophah — a hundred eighty-eight; the men of Anathoth — a hundred twenty-eight; the men of Bethazmaveth — forty-two; the men of Kiriath-Jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth — seven hundred forty-three; the men of Ramah and Geba — six hundred twenty-one; the men of Michmash — a hundred twenty-two; the men of Beth-el and Ai — two hundred twenty-three; the men of the other Nebo — fifty-two; the children of the other Elam — a thousand two hundred fifty-four; the children of Harim — three hundred twenty; the children of Jericho — three hundred forty-five; the children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono — seven hundred twenty-five; the children of Senaah — three thousand six hundred thirty.

###### 22
The priests: the children of Jedaiah (of the house of Jeshua) — nine hundred seventy-three; the children of Immer — a thousand fifty-two; the children of Pashur — a thousand two hundred forty-seven; the children of Harim — a thousand seventeen.

###### 23
The Levites: the children of Jeshua (of Kadmiel, of the children of Hodevah) — seventy-four.

###### 24
The singers of the children of Asaph — one hundred twenty-eight.

###### 25
The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai — a hundred thirty-nine.

###### 26
The temple servants: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth, the children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon, the children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Shalmai, the children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephishesim, the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, the children of Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Thamah, the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.

###### 27
The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida, the children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon. All the temple servants and the children of Solomon’s servants were three hundred ninety-two.

###### 28
And these were they who went up also from Telmelah, Telharesha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, but they could not show their father’s house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel: the children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda — six hundred fifty-two. And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai (who took one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite to wife and was called after their name). These sought their register among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found. Therefore were they, as polluted, put from the priesthood. And the governor said unto them that they should not eat of the most holy things until there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.

###### 29
The whole congregation together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty, besides their manservants and their maidservants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven. And they had two hundred forty-five singing men and singing women; their horses — seven hundred thirty-six; their mules — two hundred forty-five; their camels — four hundred thirty-five; six thousand seven hundred twenty asses.

###### 30
And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. The governor gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basins, five hundred thirty priests’ garments. And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand two hundred pounds of silver. And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand pounds of silver, and sixty-seven priests’ garments. So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the temple servants, and all Israel dwelled in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children of Israel were in their cities.

###### 31
And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate, and they spoke unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses which the Lord had commanded to Israel. And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women and all that could hear with understanding, upon the first day of the seventh month. And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women and those that could understand; and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood which they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, and Anaiah, and Uriah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand, and on his left hand, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchijah, and Hashum, and Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people. And when he opened it, all the people stood up. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, amen — with lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshipped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Also, Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Levites caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book, in the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense, and caused them to understand the reading.

###### 32
And Nehemiah, who is the governor, and Ezra the priest, the scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the people, This day is holy unto the Lord your God. Mourn not, nor weep (for all the people wept when they heard the words of the law). Then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared, for this day is holy unto our Lord. Neither be sorry, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for the day is holy, neither be grieved. And all the people went their way to eat and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth because they had understood the words that were declared unto them.

###### 33
And on the second day were gathered together the chief of the fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Ezra the scribe, even to understand the words of the law. And they found written in the law which the Lord had commanded by Moses that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month, and that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the mount and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtle branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make booths as it is written. So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselves booths, everyone upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim. And all the congregation of them that had come again out of the captivity made booths and sat under the booths, for since the days of Joshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel done so. And there was very great gladness. Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days, and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly according unto the manner.

###### 34
Now in the twenty-fourth day of this month, the children of Israel were assembled with fasting and with sackcloth and earth upon them. And the seed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers, and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. And they stood up in their place and read in the book of the law of the Lord their God one fourth part of the day, and another fourth part they confessed and worshipped the Lord their God. Then stood up (upon the stairs of the Levites) Jeshua, and Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani, and cried with a loud voice unto the Lord their God.

###### 35
Then the Levites — Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah — said, Stand up and bless the Lord your God for ever and ever, and blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise. You, you Lord alone, you have made heaven, the Heaven of heavens, with all their host; the earth and all things that are therein; the seas and all that is therein; and you preserve them all. And the host of heaven worships you. You are the Lord the God who did choose Abram, and brought him forth out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gave him the name of Abraham, and found his heart faithful before you, and made a covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Jebusites, and the Girgashites — to give it, I say, to his seed, and have performed your words (for you are righteous), and did see the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and heard their cry by the Red Sea. And you showed signs and wonders upon Pharaoh, and on all his servants, and on all the people of his land, for you knew that they dealt proudly against them. So did you get yourself a name, as it is this day. And you did divide the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on the dry land. And their persecutors you threw into the depths as a stone into the mighty waters. Moreover, you led them in the day by a cloudy pillar and in the night by a pillar of fire, to give them light in the way wherein they should go. You came down also upon Mount Sinai, and spoke with them from Heaven, and gave them right judgments and true laws, good statutes and commandments, and made known unto them your holy Sabbath, and commanded them precepts, statutes, and laws by the hand of Moses your servant, and gave them bread from heaven for their hunger, and brought forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst, and promised them that they should go in to possess the land which you had sworn to give them. But they and our fathers dealt proudly, and hardened their necks, and listened not to your commandments, and refused to obey, neither were mindful of your wonders that you did among them, but hardened their necks, and in their rebellion appointed a captain to return to their bondage.

###### 36
But you are a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and forsook them not. Yea, when they had made themselves a molten calf and said, This is your God that brought you up out of Egypt — and had wrought great provocations, yet you in your abundant mercies forsook them not in the wilderness; the pillar of the cloud departed not from them by day, to lead them in the way, neither the pillar of fire by night, to show them light and the way wherein they should go. You gave also your good spirit to instruct them, and withheld not your manna from their mouth, and gave them water for their thirst. Yea, forty years did you sustain them in the wilderness; they lacked nothing, their clothes waxed not old, and their feet swelled not. Moreover, you gave them kingdoms and nations, and did divide them into every corner. So they possessed the land of Sihon, and the land of the king of Heshbon, and the land of Og king of Bashan. Their children also you multiplied as the stars of heaven and brought them into the land concerning which you had promised to their fathers that they should go in to possess it. So the children went in and possessed the land, and you subdued before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and gave them into their hands, with their kings and the people of the land, that they might do with them as they would. And they took strong cities and a fat land, and possessed houses full of all goods, wells dug, vineyards, and oliveyards, and fruit trees in abundance. So they did eat and were filled, and became fat and delighted themselves in your great goodness. Nevertheless, they were disobedient and rebelled against you, and cast your law behind their backs, and slew your prophets who testified against them to turn them to you, and they wrought great provocations. Therefore, you delivered them into the hand of their enemies, who vexed them. And in the time of their trouble, when they cried unto you, you heard them from Heaven, and according to your abundant mercies you gave them saviors who saved them out of the hand of their enemies. But after they had rest, they did evil again before you, therefore you left them in the hand of their enemies, so that they had the dominion over them. Yet when they returned and cried unto you, you heard them from Heaven, and many times did you deliver them according to your mercies, and testified against them, that you might bring them again unto your law. Yet they dealt proudly and listened not unto your commandments, but sinned against your judgments — which if a man do, he shall live in them — and withdrew the shoulder, and hardened their neck, and would not hear. Yet many years did you bear them, and testified against them by your spirit in your prophets; yet would they not give ear. Therefore, you gave them into the hand of the people of the lands. Nevertheless, for your great mercies’ sake you did not utterly consume them nor forsake them, for you are a gracious and merciful God.

###### 37
Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the terrible God, who keeps covenant and mercy, let not all the trouble seem little before you that has come upon us, on our kings, on our princes, and on our priests, and on our prophets, and on our fathers, and on all your people, since the time of the kings of Assyria unto this day. Nevertheless, you are just in all that is brought upon us, for you have done right, but we have done wickedly. Neither have our kings, our princes, our priests, nor our fathers kept your law, nor listened unto your commandments and your testimonies with which you did testify against them. For they have not served you in their kingdom, and in your great goodness that you gave them, and in the large and fat land which you gave before them, neither turned they from their wicked works. Behold, we are servants this day, and for the land that you gave unto our fathers to eat the fruit thereof and the good thereof, behold, we are servants in it. And it yields much increase unto the kings whom you have set over us because of our sins. Also, they have dominion over our bodies and over our cattle at their pleasure, and we are in great distress. And because of all this, we make a sure covenant and write it, and our princes, Levites, and priests seal unto it.

###### 38
Now those that sealed: Nehemiah the governor (the son of Hacaliah), and Zedekiah, Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah, Pashur, Amariah, Malchijah, Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch, Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah, Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch, Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin, Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah — these were the priests. And the Levites: both Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel, and their brethren (Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan, Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah, Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah, Hodiah, Bani, Beninu). The chief of the people: Parosh, Pahathmoab, Elam, Zattu, Bani, Bunni, Azgad, Bebai, Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin, Ater, Hizkijah, Azzur, Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai, Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai, Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir, Meshezabeel, Zadok, Jaddua, Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah, Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub, Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek, Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah, and Ahijah, Hanan, Anan, Malluch, Harim, Baanah.

###### 39
And the rest of the people — the priests, the Levites, the porters, the singers, the temple servants, and all they that had separated themselves from the people of the lands unto the law of God, their wives, their sons and their daughters, everyone having knowledge and having understanding — they cleaved to their brethren, their nobles, and entered into an oath that a curse should come upon them if they did not walk in God’s law which was given by Moses the servant of God; and to observe and do all the commandments of the Lord their God, and his judgment and statutes; and that they would not give their daughters unto the people of the land, nor take the daughters of the people for their sons. And if the people of the land bring merchandise or any provisions on the Sabbath day to sell, we would not buy it of them on the Sabbath, or on the holy day, and we would leave the seventh year and the exaction of every debt.

###### 40
Also, we made ordinances for us to charge ourselves yearly with the third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God, for the showbread, and for the continual meal offering, and for the continual burnt offering of the Sabbaths, of the new moons, for the set feasts, and for the holy things, and for the sin offerings to make an atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God.

###### 41
And we cast the lots among the priests, the Levites, and the people, for the wood offering, to bring it into the house of our God after the houses of our fathers, at times appointed year by year, to burn upon the altar of the Lord our God as it is written in the law; and to bring the firstfruits of our ground, and the firstfruits of all fruit of all trees year by year unto the house of the Lord; also, the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, as it is written in the law, and the firstlings of our herds and of our flocks, to bring to the house of our God, unto the priests that minister in the house of our God; and that we should bring the firstfruits of our dough, and our offerings, and the fruit of all manner of trees, of wine, and of oil, unto the priests, to the chambers of the house of our God; and the tithes of our ground unto the Levites, that the same Levites might have the tithes in all the cities of our tillage. And the priest (the son of Aaron) shall be with the Levites when the Levites take tithes, and the Levites shall bring up the tithe of the tithes unto the house of our God, to the chambers, into the treasure house. For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring the offering of the grain, of the new wine, and the oil, unto the chambers where are the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests that minister, and the porters, and the singers. And we will not forsake the house of our God.

###### 42
And the rulers of the people dwelled at Jerusalem. The rest of the people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts in other cities. And the people blessed all the men that willingly offered themselves to dwell at Jerusalem.

###### 43
Now these are the chief of the province that dwelled in Jerusalem (but in the cities of Judah dwelled everyone in his possession in their cities — Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the temple servants, and the children of Solomon’s servants — and at Jerusalem dwelled of the children of Judah and of the children of Benjamin): of the children of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the children of Perez; and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of Shiloni. All the sons of Perez that dwelled at Jerusalem were four hundred sixty-eight valiant men.

###### 44
And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah; and after him Gabbai, Sallai — nine hundred twenty-eight; and Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer, and Judah the son of Senuah, second over the city.

###### 45
Of the priests: Jedaiah, the son of Joiarib; Jachin; Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God. And their brethren that did the work of the house were eight hundred twenty-two. And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchiah, and his brethren, chief of the fathers — two hundred forty-two; and Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer, and their brethren, mighty men of valor — one hundred twenty-eight. And their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of one of the great men.

###### 46
Also of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni; and Shabbethai and Jozabad of the chief of the Levites had the oversight of the outward business of the house of God. And Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, was the principal to begin the thanksgiving in prayer; and Bakbukiah, the second among his brethren, and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun. All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred eighty-four.

###### 47
Moreover, the porters: Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren that kept the gates were a hundred seventy-two. And the residue of Israel, of the priests the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, everyone in his inheritance. But the temple servants dwelled in Ophel, and Ziha and Gishpa over the temple servants.

###### 48
The overseer also of the Levites at Jerusalem: Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica, of the sons of Asaph, the singers over the business of the house of God; for it was the king’s commandment concerning them that a certain portion should be for the singers due for every day. And Pethahiah, the son of Meshezabeel, of the children of Zerah, the son of Judah, was at the king’s hand in all matters concerning the people.

###### 49
And for the villages with their fields, some of the children of Judah dwelled at Kiriath-Arba and in the villages thereof; and at Dibon and in the villages thereof; and at Jekabzeel and in the villages thereof; and at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Bethpelet, and at Hazar-Shual, and at Beersheba and in the villages thereof; and at Ziklag, and at Meconah and in the villages thereof; and at Enrimmon, and at Zorah, and at Jarmuth, Zanoah, Adullam, and in their villages; at Lachish and the fields thereof; at Azekah and in the villages thereof. And they dwelled from Beersheba unto the valley of Hinnom.

###### 50
The children also of Benjamin from Geba dwelled at Michmash, and Aija, and Beth-el, and in their villages, and at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah, Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim, Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat, Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen. And of the Levites were divisions in Judah and in Benjamin.

###### 51
Now these are the priests and the Levites that went up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra, Amariah, Malluch, Hattush, Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth, Iddo, Ginnetho, Abijah, Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah, Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah, Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah — these were the chief of the priests and of their brethren in the days of Jeshua. Moreover, the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, who was over the thanksgiving, he and his brethren. Also, Bakbukiah and Unni, their brethren, were opposite them in the watches.

###### 52
And Jeshua begot Joiakim, Joiakim also begot Eliashib, and Eliashib begot Joiada, and Joiada begot Jonathan, and Jonathan begot Jaddua. And in the days of Joiakim were priests, the chief of the fathers: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah; of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan; of Malluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph; of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai; of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam; of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah: Piltai; of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan; and of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi; of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber; of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel.

###### 53
The Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, were recorded — chief of the fathers, also the priests — to the reign of Darius the Persian. The sons of Levi, the chief of the fathers, were written in the book of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib. And the chief of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their brethren opposite them, to praise and to give thanks, according to the commandment of David the man of God, watch corresponding with watch. Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub were porters keeping the watch at the thresholds of the gates. These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the priest, the scribe.

###### 54
And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgivings and with singing, with cymbals, psalteries, and with harps. And the sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both out of the plain country round about Jerusalem, and from the villages of the Netophathites, also from the house of Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth, for the singers had built themselves villages round about Jerusalem. And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.

###### 55
Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall and appointed two great companies of them that gave thanks, whereof one went on the right hand upon the wall toward the dung gate. And after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah, and Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam, Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah, and certain of the priests’ sons with trumpets, namely Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph, and his brethren Shemaiah, and Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of David the man of God, and Ezra the scribe before them. And at the fountain gate which was opposite them, they went up by the stairs of the city of David at the ascent of the wall above the house of David, even unto the water gate eastward.

###### 56
And the other company of them that gave thanks went opposite them, and I after them, and the half of the people upon the wall — from beyond the tower of the furnaces even unto the broad wall, and from above the gate of Ephraim, and above the old gate, and above the fish gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Meah, even unto the sheep gate. And they stood still in the prison gate. So stood the two companies of them that gave thanks in the house of God, and I, and the half of the rulers with me, and the priests — Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah with trumpets — and Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. And the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer. Also that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy. The wives also and the children rejoiced, so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off.

###### 57
And at that time were some appointed over the chambers for the treasures, for the offerings, for the firstfruits, and for the tithes, to gather into them out of the fields of the cities the portions of the law for the priests and Levites, for Judah rejoiced for the priests and for the Levites that waited. And both the singers and the porters kept the charge of their God and the charge of the purification, according to the commandment of David and of Solomon his son. For in the days of David and Asaph of old, there were chief of the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving unto God. And all Israel, in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days of Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, every day his portion, and they sanctified holy things unto the Levites, and the Levites sanctified them unto the children of Aaron.

###### 58
On that day, they read in the book of Moses in the audience of the people, and therein was found written that the Ammonite and the Moabite should not come into the congregation of God for ever, because they met not the children of Israel with bread and with water but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them. Nevertheless, our God turned the curse into a blessing. Now it came to pass, when they had heard the law, that they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.

###### 59
And before this, Eliashib the priest, having the oversight of the chamber of the house of our God, was related to Tobiah. And he had prepared for him a great chamber where previously they laid the meal offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tithes of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, which was commanded to be given to the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the offerings of the priests. But in all this time, I was not at Jerusalem; for in the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon came I unto the king, and after certain days I obtained leave of the king. And I came to Jerusalem, and understood of the evil that Eliashib did for Tobiah in preparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God, and it grieved me severely. Therefore, I cast forth all the household stuff of Tobiah out of the chamber. Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers, and there brought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the meal offering and the frankincense.

###### 60
And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them, for the Levites and the singers that did the work were fled, every one to his field. Then I contended with the rulers and said, Why is the house of God forsaken? And I gathered them together and set them in their place. Then brought all Judah the tithe of the grain, and the new wine, and the oil unto the treasuries. And I made treasurers over the treasuries: Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites: Pedaiah; and next to them was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah; for they were counted faithful, and their office was to distribute unto their brethren. Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and wipe not out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God and for the offices thereof.

###### 61
In those days saw I in Judah some treading wine presses on the Sabbath, and bringing in sheaves of wheat and loading asses, as also wine, grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I testified against them in the day wherein they sold provisions. There dwelled men of Tyre also therein, who brought fish and all manner of merchandise, and sold on the Sabbath unto the children of Judah and in Jerusalem. Then I contended with the nobles of Judah and said unto them, What evil thing is this that you do, and profane the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this evil upon us and upon this city? Yet you bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the Sabbath.

###### 62
And it came to pass that when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the Sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut, and charged that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath. And some of my servants set I at the gates, that there should no burden be brought in on the Sabbath day. So the merchants and sellers of all kind of merchandise lodged outside Jerusalem once or twice, then I testified against them and said unto them, Why do you lodge about the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that time forth came they no more on the Sabbath. And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the Sabbath day. Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to the greatness of your mercy.

###### 63
In those days also I saw Jews that had married wives of Ashdod, of Ammon, and of Moab, and their children spoke half in the speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews’ language, but according to the language of each people. And I contended with them, and cursed them, and smote certain of them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, saying, You shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take their daughters unto your sons, or for yourselves. Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things? Yet among many nations was there no king like him, who was beloved of his God, and God made him king over all Israel. Nevertheless, even him did foreign women cause to sin. Shall we then listen unto you to do all this great evil, to transgress against our God in marrying strange wives? And one of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son-in-law to Sanballat the Horonite, therefore I chased him from me. Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood and of the Levites.

###### 64
Thus I cleansed them from all strangers, and appointed the watches of the priests and the Levites, every one in his business, and for the wood offering at times appointed, and for the firstfruits. Remember me, O my God, for good.