[<< Genesis 1](Genesis%201.md)  |  [Genesis 3 >>](Genesis%203.md)

### Chapter 2
###### 1
And it came to pass that the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, Behold, I reveal unto you concerning this heaven and this earth. Write the words which I speak.

###### 2
I am the Beginning and the End, the Almighty God. By my Only Begotten I created these things. Yea, in the beginning I organized the heaven and the earth upon which you stand. And the earth was empty and desolate. And I caused darkness to come up upon the face of the deep. And my spirit moved upon the face of the waters, for I am God.

###### 3
And I, God, said, Let there be light; and there was light. And I, God, saw the light, and the light was good. And I, God, divided the light from the darkness. And I, God, called the light day, and the darkness I called night. And this I did by the word of my power. And it was done as I spoke. And the evening and the morning were the first day.

###### 4
And again I, God, said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters. And it was so, even as I spoke. And I said, Let it divide the waters from the waters. And it was done. And I, God, made the firmament and divided the waters, yea, the great waters under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament. And it was so, even as I spoke. And I, God, called the firmament heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.

###### 5
And I, God, said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place. And it was so. And I, God, said, Let there be dry land. And it was so. And I, God, called the dry land earth, and the gathering together of the waters called I seas. And I, God, saw that all things that I had made were good. And I, God, said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit whose seed should be in itself, upon the earth. And it was so, even as I spoke. And the earth brought forth grass, every herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit whose seed should be in itself after his kind. And I, God, saw that all things which I had made were good. And the evening and the morning were the third day.

###### 6
And I, God, said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night. And let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and for years. And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven, to give light upon the earth. And it was so. And I, God, made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. And the greater light was the sun, and the lesser light was the moon. And the stars also were made even according to my word. And I, God, set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth, and the sun to rule over the day, and the moon to rule over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness. And I, God, saw that all things which I had made were good. And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

###### 7
And I, God, said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that has life, and fowl which may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven. And I, God, created great whales, and every living creature that moves which the waters brought forth abundantly after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind. And I, God, saw that all things which I had created were good. And I, God, blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the sea, and let fowl multiply in the earth. And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

###### 8
And I, God, said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind — cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind. And it was so. And I, God, made the beasts of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and everything which creeps upon the earth after his kind. And I, God, saw that all these things were good. And I, God, said unto my Only Begotten, who was with me from the beginning, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And it was so. And I, God, said, Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth. And I, God, created man in my own image, in the image of my Only Begotten created I him. Male and female created I them. And I, God, blessed them.

###### 9
And I, God, said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moves upon the earth. And I, God, said unto man, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree in which shall be the fruit of a tree yielding seed. To you it shall be for food. And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to everything that creeps upon the earth wherein I grant life, there shall be given every green herb for food. And it was so, even as I spoke. And I, God, saw everything that I had made. And behold, all things which I had made were very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.

###### 10
Thus, the heaven and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day, I, God, ended my work and all things which I had made, and I rested on the seventh day from all my work. And all things which I had made were finished, and I, God, saw that they were good. And I, God, blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because in it I had rested from all my work which I, God, had created and made.

###### 11
And now behold, I say unto you that these are the generations of the heaven and of the earth when they were created in the day that I, the Lord God, made the heaven, and the earth, and every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things of which I have spoken spiritually before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men, and not yet a man to till the ground, for in Heaven created I them. And there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air. But I, the Lord God, spoke, and there went up a mist from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground. And I, the Lord God, formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into Adam his spirit, or the breath of life, and man became a living soul, the first flesh upon the earth, the first man also. Nevertheless, all things were before created, but spiritually were they created and made according to my word.

###### 12
And I, the Lord God, planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there I put the man whom I had formed. And out of the ground made I, the Lord God, to grow every tree naturally that is pleasant to the sight of man, and man could behold it. And it became also a living soul, for it was spiritual in the day that I created it, for it remains in the sphere in which I, God, created it — yea, even all things which I prepared for the use of man. And man saw that it was good for food. And I, the Lord God, planted the Tree of Life also in the midst of the garden, and also the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil. And I, the Lord God, caused a river to go out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it was parted and became into four heads. And I, the Lord God, called the name of the first Pishon, and it encompasses the whole land of Havilah where I, the Lord, created much gold. And the gold of that land was good; and there was bdellium and the onyx stone. And the name of the second river was called Gihon, the same that encompasses the whole land of Ethiopia. And the name of the third river was Hiddekel, that which goes towards the east of Assyria. And the fourth river was Euphrates.

###### 13
And I, the Lord God, took the man and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And I, the Lord God, commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. You shall not eat of it. Nevertheless, you may choose for yourself, for it is given unto you. But remember that I forbid it, for in the day that you eat thereof, you shall surely die. And I, the Lord God, said unto my Only Begotten that it was not good that the man should be alone; wherefore, I will make a help meet for him. And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air, and commanded that they should come unto Adam to see what he would call them. And they were also living souls, for I, God, breathed into them the breath of life and commanded that whatever Adam called every living creature, that should be the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but as for Adam, there was not found a help meet for him.

###### 14
And I, the Lord God, caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept. And I took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in the stead thereof. And the rib which I, the Lord God, had taken from man, made I a woman, and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This I know now is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man; therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.

###### 15
And I, the Lord God, spoke unto Moses, saying, That Satan whom you have commanded in the name of my Only Begotten is the same who was from the beginning. And he came before me, saying, Behold, I, send me. I will be your Son and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost. And surely I will do it. Wherefore, give me your honor. But behold, my Beloved Son, who was my beloved and chosen from the beginning, said unto me, Father, your will be done, and the glory be yours for ever. Wherefore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency of man which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also that I should give unto him my own power, by the power of my Only Begotten, I caused that he should be cast down. And he became Satan, yea, even the Devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not listen unto my voice.

###### 16
And now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which I, the Lord God, had made. And Satan put it into the heart of the serpent (for he had drawn away many after him, and he sought also to beguile Eve, for he knew not the mind of God; wherefore, he thought to destroy the world) and he said unto the woman, Yea, has God said, You shall not eat of every tree of the garden? (And he spoke by the mouth of the serpent.) And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden but of the fruit of the tree which you behold in the midst of the garden. God has said, You shall not eat of it, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. And the serpent said unto the woman, You shall not surely die, for God does know that in the day you eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened and you shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it became pleasant to the eyes and a tree to be desired to make her wise, she took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they had been naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons.

###### 17
And they heard the voice of the Lord God as they were walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife went to hide themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. And I, the Lord God, called unto Adam and said unto him, Where are you going? And he said, I heard your voice in the garden and I was afraid because I beheld that I was naked, and I hid myself. And I, the Lord God, said unto Adam, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree whereof I commanded you that you should not eat, if so you should surely die? And the man said, The woman whom you gave me and commanded that she should remain with me, she gave me of the fruit of the tree and I did eat. And I, the Lord God, said unto the woman, What is this thing which you have done? The woman said, The serpent beguiled me and I did eat.

###### 18
And I, the Lord God, said unto the serpent, Because you have done this, you shall be cursed above all cattle and above every beast of the field. Upon your belly shall you go, and dust shall you eat all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed; he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Unto the woman, I, the Lord God, said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. In sorrow you shall bring forth children; and your desire shall be to your husband, and he shall rule over you. And unto Adam, I, the Lord God, said, Because you have listened unto the voice of your wife and have eaten of the fruit of the tree of which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat of it, cursed shall be the ground for your sake; in sorrow shall you eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to you, and you shall eat the herb of the field. By the sweat of your face shall you eat bread until you shall return unto the ground, for you shall surely die, for out of it were you taken — for dust you were and unto dust shall you return. And Adam called his wife’s name Eve because she was the mother of all living, for thus have I, the Lord God, called the first of all women, which is many. Unto Adam also, and to his wife, did I, the Lord God, make coats of skin, and clothed them.

###### 19
And I, the Lord God, said unto my Only Begotten, Behold, the man has become as one of us, to know good and evil. And now, lest he put forth his hand and partake also of the Tree of Life, and eat and live for ever, therefore, I, the Lord God, will send him forth from the Garden of Eden to till the ground from where he was taken. For as I, the Lord God, live, even so my words cannot return void; for as they go forth out of my mouth, they must be fulfilled. So I drove out the man and I placed at the east of the Garden of Eden cherubim and a flaming sword which turned every way to keep the way of the Tree of Life.

###### 20
And those are the words which I spoke unto my servant Moses, and they are true even as I intend. And I have spoken them unto you; see you show them unto no man until I command you, except they that believe. Amen.