[<< Genesis 4](Genesis%204.md)  |  [Genesis 6 >>](Genesis%206.md)

### Chapter 5
###### 1
And it came to pass that Methuselah, the son of Enoch, was not taken, that the covenants of the Lord might be fulfilled which he made to Enoch; for he truly covenanted with Enoch that Noah should be of the fruit of his loins. And it came to pass that Methuselah prophesied that from his loins should spring all the kingdoms of the earth (through Noah). And he took glory unto himself.

###### 2
And there came forth a great famine into the land, and the Lord cursed the earth with a severe curse, and many of the inhabitants thereof died.

###### 3
And it came to pass that Methuselah lived a hundred eighty-seven years and begot Lamech. And Methuselah lived, after he begot Lamech, seven hundred eighty-two years, and begot sons and daughters. And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-nine years, and he died.

###### 4
And Lamech lived a hundred eighty-two years and begot a son. And he called his name Noah, saying, This son shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands because of the ground which the Lord has cursed. And Lamech lived after he begot Noah five hundred ninety-five years, and begot sons and daughters. And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years, and he died.


*Noah’s prophecy of the deluge, etc.*

###### 5
And Noah was four hundred fifty years old and begot Japheth; and forty-two years afterward, he begot Shem of her who was the mother of Japheth; and when he was five hundred years old, he begot Ham. And Noah and his sons listened unto the Lord and gave heed, and they were called the sons of God.

###### 6
And when these men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them — that the sons of men saw that their daughters were fair — they took them wives even as they chose. And the Lord said unto Noah, The daughters of your sons have sold themselves. For behold, my anger is kindled against the sons of men, for they will not listen to my voice. And it came to pass that Noah prophesied and taught the things of God, even as it was in the beginning.

###### 7
And the Lord said unto Noah, My spirit shall not always strive with man. For he shall know that all flesh shall die, yet his days shall be a hundred twenty years. And if men do not repent, I will send in the floods upon them.

###### 8
And in those days, there were giants on the earth, and they sought Noah to take away his life; but the Lord was with Noah, and the power of the Lord was upon him. And the Lord ordained Noah after his own Order and commanded him that he should go forth and declare his gospel unto the children of men, even as it was given unto Enoch.

###### 9
And it came to pass that Noah called upon the children of men that they should repent, but they listened not unto his words. And also, after they had heard him, they came up before him, saying, Behold, we are the sons of God. Have we not taken unto ourselves the daughters of men? And are we not eating and drinking, and marrying and given in marriage? And our wives bear unto us children, and the same are mighty men who are like unto them of old, men of great renown. And they listened not unto the words of Noah. And God saw that the wickedness of man had become great in the earth. And every man was lifted up in the imagination of the thoughts of his heart, being only evil continually.

###### 10
And it came to pass that Noah continued his preaching unto the people, saying, Listen and give heed unto my words. Believe, and repent of your sins, and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers did, and you shall receive the gift of the holy ghost, that you may have all things made manifest. And if you do not do this, the floods will come in upon you. Nevertheless, they listened not.

###### 11
And it grieved Noah, and his heart was pained that the Lord had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping things, and the fowls of the air; for it repents Noah that I have created them and that I have made them. And he has called upon me, for they have sought his life. And thus Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord, for Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and he walked with God, and also his three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

###### 12
But the earth was corrupt before God and it was filled with violence. And God looked upon it, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me; for the earth is filled with violence, and behold, I will destroy all flesh from off the earth. Make yourself therefore an ark of gopher wood. Rooms shall you make in the ark, and shall pitch it within and without with pitch. And the length of the ark you shall make three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits. A window shall you make to the ark, and in a cubit shall you finish it above. And the door of the ark shall you set in the side thereof. Lower, second, and third chambers shall you make in it. And behold, I, even I will bring in a flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh wherein shall be the breath of life, from under Heaven. Everything that lives on the earth shall die. But with you will I establish my covenant, even as I have sworn unto your father Enoch, that from a remnant of your posterity should come all nations. And you shall come into the ark — you, and your sons, and your wife, and your sons’ wives with you. And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every kind shall you bring into the ark, to keep alive with you. They shall be male and female, of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind. Two of every kind shall you take into the ark to keep alive. And take unto yourself of all food that is eaten, and you shall gather fruit of every kind unto yourself in the ark; and it shall be for food for you and for them. Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him.


*Noah and his sons entered into the ark, etc.*

###### 13
And the Lord said unto Noah, Come into the ark, and all your house, for you only have I seen righteous before me in this generation. Of every clean beast you shall take to yourself by sevens, the male and his female; and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female; of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth. For yet seven days and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights. And every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth. And Noah did according to all that the Lord commanded him. And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.

###### 14
And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him into the ark, because the waters of the flood. Of clean beasts, and of beasts that were not clean, and of fowls, and of everything that creeps upon the earth, there went in two and two unto Noah, into the ark, the male and the female, as God had commanded Noah.

###### 15
And it came to pass after seven days that the waters of the flood were upon the earth. In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened, and the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights. In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth (the sons of Noah), and Noah’s wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, into the ark — they and every beast after his kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind, every bird of every sort. And they went unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all flesh wherein is the breath of life. And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded him, and the Lord shut him in. And the flood was forty days upon the earth. And the waters increased and bore up the ark, and it was lifted up above the earth. And the waters prevailed and were increased greatly upon the earth, and the ark went upon the face of the waters. And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the face of the earth. And all the high hills that are under the whole heaven were covered, fifteen cubits and upward did the waters prevail, and the mountains were covered. And all flesh died that moved upon the face of the earth, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of beasts, and of every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth, and every man. All in whose nostrils the Lord had breathed the breath of life, of all that were on the dry land, died.

###### 16
And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the fowls of the heaven. And they were destroyed from the earth, and Noah only remained, and they that were with him in the ark. And the waters prevailed on the earth a hundred fifty days. And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that were with him in the ark. And God made a wind to pass over the earth. And the waters subsided, the fountains also of the deep; and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained. And the waters returned from off the earth continually. And after the end of the hundred fifty days, the waters were abated. And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat. And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month. And in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen.

###### 17
And it came to pass at the end of forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made. And he sent forth a raven which went forth to and fro until the waters were dried up from off the earth. Also he sent forth a dove from him to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground, but the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot. And she returned unto him, into the ark, for the waters had not receded from off the face of the whole earth. Then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him, into the ark. And he stayed yet another seven days. And again he sent the dove out of the ark. And the dove came in to him in the evening, and in her mouth an olive leaf, plucked off, so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth. And he stayed yet another seven days and sent forth a dove, which returned not again unto him anymore.

###### 18
And it came to pass in the six hundred first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth. And Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the face of the ground was dry. And in the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, was the earth dried.

###### 19
And God spoke unto Noah, saying, Go forth out of the ark — you, and your wife, and your sons, and your sons’ wives with you. Bring forth with yourself every living thing that is with you of all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth, that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth. And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him. Every beast, and every creeping thing, and every fowl, and whatever creeps upon the earth after their kinds went forth out of the ark. And Noah built an altar unto the Lord, and took of every clean beast and of every clean fowl and offered burnt offerings on the altar, and gave thanks unto the Lord, and rejoiced in his heart.

###### 20
And the Lord spoke unto Noah, and he blessed him. And Noah smelled a sweet savor and he said in his heart, I will call on the name of the Lord that he will not again curse the ground anymore for man’s sake, for the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth; and that he will not again smite anymore everything living, as he has done, while the earth remains; and that seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night may not cease with man.


*The covenant which God made to Noah, and when the city of Enoch should come down out of Heaven, etc.*

###### 21
And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth. And the fear of you, and the dread of you, shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moves upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered. Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you, even as the green herb have I given you all things. But the blood of all flesh which I have given you for food shall be shed upon the ground which takes life thereof. And the blood you shall not eat. And surely blood shall not be shed only for food to save your lives. And the blood of every beast will I require at your hands. And whoever sheds man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed; for man shall not shed the blood of man. For a commandment I give that every man’s brother shall preserve the life of man, for in my own image have I made man. And a commandment I give unto you: Be fruitful and multiply; bring forth abundantly on the earth and multiply therein.

###### 22
And God spoke unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, And I, behold, I will establish my covenant with you which I made unto your father Enoch concerning your seed after you. And it shall come to pass that every living creature that is with you — of the fowl, and of the cattle, and of the beast of the earth that is with you which shall go out of the ark — shall not altogether perish. Neither shall all flesh be cut off anymore by the waters of a flood, neither shall there anymore be a flood to destroy the earth. And I will establish my covenant with you which I made unto Enoch concerning the remnants of your posterity. And God made a covenant with Noah and said, This shall be the token of the covenant I make between me and you, and for every living creature with you, for perpetual generations: I will set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth. And it shall come to pass when I bring a cloud over the earth that the bow shall be seen in the cloud. And I will remember my covenant which I have made between me and you, for every living creature of all flesh. And the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. And the bow shall be in the cloud. And I will look upon it that I may remember the everlasting covenant which I made unto your father Enoch: that when men should keep all my commandments, Zion should again come on the earth, the city of Enoch which I have caught up unto myself. And this is my everlasting covenant that I establish with you: that when your posterity shall embrace the truth and look upward, then shall Zion look downward, and all the heavens shall shake with gladness and the earth shall tremble with joy. And the general assembly of the church of the Firstborn shall come down out of Heaven and possess the earth, and shall have place until the end come. And this is my everlasting covenant which I made with your father Enoch. And the bow shall be in the cloud. And I will establish my covenant unto you, which I have made between me and you, for every living creature of all flesh that shall be upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and you, for all flesh that shall be upon the earth.

###### 23
And the sons of Noah that went forth of the ark were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth; and Ham was the Father Canaan. These were the three sons of Noah, and of them was the whole earth overspread.

###### 24
And Noah began to till the earth. And he was a husbandman, and he planted a vineyard. And he drank of the wine and was drunk; and he was uncovered within his tent. And Ham, the Father Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father and told his two brethren outside. And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid upon both their shoulders, and went backward and covered the nakedness of their father. And their faces were backward, and they saw not their father’s nakedness. And Noah awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done unto him. And he said, Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren. And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of Shem. And Canaan shall be his servant, and a veil of darkness shall cover him, that he shall be known among all men. God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem, and Canaan shall be his servant. And Noah lived after the flood three hundred fifty years. And all the days of Noah were nine hundred fifty years, and he died.