[[Psalms 104|<< Psalms 104]]  |  [[Psalms 106|Psalms 106 >>]]

### Psalm 105
###### 1
O give thanks unto the Lord. Call upon his name. Make known his deeds among the people. Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him. Talk of all his wondrous works. Glory in his holy name. Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Seek the Lord and his strength, seek his face ever.

###### 2
Remember his marvelous works that he has done, his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth, O you seed of Abraham his servant, you children of Jacob his chosen. He is the Lord our God. His judgments are in all the earth. He has remembered his covenant for ever — the word which he commanded to a thousand generations — which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac, and confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant, saying, Unto you will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance, when they were but a few men in number, yea, very few and strangers in it. When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people, he suffered no man to do them wrong. Yea, he reproved kings for their sakes, saying, Touch not my anointed and do my prophets no harm.

###### 3
Moreover, he called for a famine upon the land. He broke the whole support of bread. He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant, whose feet they hurt with fetters. He was laid in iron until the time that his word came. The word of the Lord tried him. The king sent and released him, even the ruler of the people, and let him go free. He made him lord of his house and ruler of all his substance, to bind his princes at his pleasure and teach his elders wisdom. Israel also came into Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. And he increased his people greatly and made them stronger than their enemies. He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtly with his servants.

###### 4
He sent Moses his servant and Aaron whom he had chosen. They showed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham. He sent darkness and made it dark, and they rebelled not against his word. He turned their waters into blood and slew their fish. Their land brought forth frogs in abundance in the chambers of their kings. He spoke and there came diverse sorts of flies and lice in all their borders. He gave them hail for rain and flaming fire in their land. He smote their vines also, and their fig trees, and broke the trees of their borders. He spoke and the locusts came, and caterpillars, and that without number, and did eat up all the herbs in their land and devoured the fruit of their ground. He smote also all the first born in their land, the chief of all their strength. He brought them forth also with silver and gold, and there was not one feeble person among their tribes. Egypt was glad when they departed, for the fear of them fell upon them. He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light in the night. The people asked and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of Heaven. He opened the rock and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river. For he remembered his holy promise unto Abraham his servant. And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness, and gave them the lands of the heathen; and they inherited the labor of the people, that they might observe his statutes and keep his laws. Praise the Lord.