[[Psalms 70|<< Psalms 70]]  |  [[Psalms 72|Psalms 72 >>]]

### Psalm 71
###### 1
In you, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be put to confusion. Deliver me in your righteousness and cause me to escape. Incline your ear unto me and save me. Be my strong habitation unto which I may continually come. You have given commandment to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. For you are my hope, O Lord God. You are my trust from my youth. By you I have been held up from the womb. You are he that took me out of my mother’s inward parts. My praise shall be continually of you. I am as a wonder unto many, but you are my strong refuge. Let my mouth be filled with your praise and with your honor all the day.

###### 2
Cast me not off in the time of old age. Forsake me not when my strength fails. For my enemies speak against me and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together, saying, God has forsaken him, persecute and take him, for there is none to deliver him. O God, do not be far from me. O my God, make haste for my help. Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul. Let them be covered with reproach and dishonor that seek my hurt.

###### 3
But I will hope continually and will yet praise you more and more. My mouth shall show forth your righteousness and your salvation all the day, for I do not know the numbers thereof. I will go in the strength of the Lord God. I will make mention of your righteousness, even of yours only. O God, you have taught me from my youth, and hitherto have I declared your wondrous works; now also, when I am old and gray-headed. O God, forsake me not until I have shown your strength unto this generation and your power to everyone that is to come. Your righteousness also, O God, is very high, who have done great things. O God, who is like unto you? You, who have shown me great and severe troubles, shall quicken me again and shall bring me up again from the depths of the earth. You shall increase my greatness and comfort me on every side. I will also praise you with the psaltery, even your truth, O my God. Unto you will I sing with the harp, O you Holy One of Israel. My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto you, and my soul which you have redeemed. My tongue also shall talk of your righteousness all the day long. For they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame that seek my hurt.