[<< Daniel 8](Daniel%208.md)  |  [Daniel 10 >>](Daniel%2010.md)

### Chapter 9
###### 1
In the first year of Darius — the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of the Medes, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans — in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood by books the number of the years whereof the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet, that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem. And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer and supplications, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. And I prayed unto the Lord my God, and made my confession and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him and to them that keep his commandments, we have sinned and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly and have rebelled, even by departing from your precepts and from your judgments. Neither have we listened unto your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.

###### 2
O Lord, righteousness belongs unto you, but unto us confusion of faces, as at this day — to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and unto all Israel that are near and that are far off, through all the countries to which you have driven them because of their trespass that they have trespassed against you. O Lord, to us belongs confusion of face — to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers — because we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we have rebelled against him. Neither have we obeyed the voice of the Lord our God, to walk in his laws which he set before us by his servants the prophets. Yea, all Israel have transgressed your law, even by departing that they might not obey your voice. Therefore, the curse is poured upon us and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of God, because we have sinned against him. And he has confirmed his words which he spoke against us, and against our judges that judged us, by bringing upon us a great evil; for under the whole heaven has not been done as has been done upon Jerusalem. As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil has come upon us; yet we made not our prayer before the Lord our God, that we might turn from our iniquities and understand your truth. Therefore has the Lord watched upon the evil and brought it upon us, for the Lord our God is righteous in all his works which he does, for we obeyed not his voice.

###### 3
And now, O Lord our God, that have brought your people forth out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have gotten you renown as at this day, we have sinned; we have done wickedly. O Lord, according to all your righteousness, I implore you, let your anger and your fury be turned away from your city Jerusalem, your holy mountain; because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people are become a reproach to all that are about us. Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of your servant and his supplications, and cause your face to shine upon your sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord’s sake. O my God, incline your ear and hear, open your eyes and behold our desolations and the city which is called by your name, for we do not present our supplications before you for our righteousnesses, but for your great mercies. O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, listen and do. Defer not, for your own sake, O my God, for your city and your people are called by your name.

###### 4
And while I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God for the holy mountain of my God — yea, while I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening offering. And he informed me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you skill and understanding. At the beginning of your supplications, the commandment came forth, and I have come to show you; for you are greatly beloved. Therefore, understand the matter and consider the vision.

###### 5
Seventy weeks are determined upon your people and upon your holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the Prince, shall be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. The street shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times. And after sixty-two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. And the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary, and the end thereof shall be with a flood; and unto the end of the war, desolations are determined. And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week. And in the middle of the week, he shall cause the sacrifice and the offering to cease. And for the overspreading of abominations he shall make it desolate, even until the consummation and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate.