[[John 9.md|<< John 9]]  |  [[John 11.md|John 11 >>]]

### Chapter 10
###### 1
When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden into which he entered, and his disciples. And Judas also, who betrayed him, knew the place, for Jesus ofttimes met there with his disciples. Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with lanterns, and torches, and weapons. Jesus, therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth and said unto them, Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus says unto them, I am he. (And Judas also, who betrayed him, stood with them.) As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward and fell to the ground. Then he asked them again, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he. If therefore you seek me, let these go their way — that the saying might be fulfilled which he spoke, Of them whom you gave me have I lost none. Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and smote the high priest’s servant and cut off his right ear. The servant’s name was Malchus. Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up your sword into the sheath. The cup which my Father has given me, shall I not drink it?

###### 2
Then the band, and the captain, and officers of the Jews took Jesus, and bound him, and led him away to Annas first — for he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was the high priest that same year. Now Caiaphas was he who gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.

###### 3
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple — that disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest, but Peter stood at the door outside. Then went out that other disciple who was known unto the high priest, and spoke unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter. Then says the young woman that kept the door unto Peter, Are you not also one of this man’s disciples? He says, I am not. And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire of coals (for it was cold and they warmed themselves), and Peter stood with them and warmed himself.

###### 4
The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples and of his doctrine. Jesus answered him, I spoke openly to the world. I ever taught in the synagogue and in the temple where the Jews always assemble, and in secret have I said nothing. Why do you ask me? Ask them who heard me what I have said unto them. Behold, they know what I said. And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers who stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Do you answer the high priest so? Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil, but if well, why do you smite me? Now Annas sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest.

###### 5
And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore unto him, Are you not also one of his disciples? He denied it and said, I am not. One of the servants of the high priest, being his kinsman whose ear Peter cut off, says, Did I not see you in the garden with him? Peter then denied again and immediately the cock crowed.

###### 6
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment, and it was early. And they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the passover. Pilate then went out unto them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man? They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto you. Then said Pilate unto them, Take him and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death — that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spoke signifying what death he should die.

###### 7
Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called Jesus and said unto him, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus answered him, Do you say this thing of yourself? Or did others tell it to you of me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you unto me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews. But now is my kingdom not from here. Pilate therefore said unto him, Are you a king then? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king; to this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world — that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone that is of the truth hears my voice. Pilate says unto him, What is truth?

###### 8
And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and says unto them, I find in him no fault at all; but you have a custom that I should release unto you one at the Passover. Do you desire therefore that I release unto you the king of the Jews? Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas! (Now Barabbas was a robber.) Then Pilate therefore took Jesus and scourged him. And the soldiers plaited a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe and said, Hail, king of the Jews! And they smote him with their hands.

###### 9
Pilate therefore went forth again, and says unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you that you may know that I find no fault in him. Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And Pilate says unto them, Behold the man! When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him! Pilate says unto them, Take him and crucify him, for I find no fault in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die because he made himself the Son of God.

###### 10
When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more afraid, and went again into the judgment hall, and says unto Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. Then says Pilate unto him, You do not speak unto me? Do you not know that I have power to crucify you? And have power to release you? Jesus answered, You could have no power at all against me except it were given you from above. Therefore, he that delivered me unto you has the greater sin. And from that time forth, Pilate sought to release him.

###### 11
But the Jews cried out, saying, If you let this man go, you are not Caesar’s friend! Whoever makes himself a king speaks against Caesar! When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus forth and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the Pavement (but in the Hebrew, Gabbatha). And it was the preparation of the Passover and about the sixth hour, and he says unto the Jews, Behold your king! But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him! Pilate says unto them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. Then he delivered him therefore unto them to be crucified.

###### 12
And they took Jesus and led him away. And he, bearing his cross, went forth into a place called the place of a burial (which is called in the Hebrew, Golgotha) where they crucified him and two others with him — on either side one, and Jesus in the middle. And Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was: jesus of nazareth the king of the jews. This title then read many of the Jews, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near to the city, and it was written in Hebrew, and Greek, and Latin. Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not: the king of the jews, but that: He said, I am king of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part, and also his coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be — that the scripture might be fulfilled which says: They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did.

###### 13
Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he says unto his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then says he to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour, that disciple took her unto his own home.

###### 14
After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, says, I thirst. Now there was a vessel full of vinegar mingled with gall, and they filled a sponge with it and put upon hyssop, and put to his mouth. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost.

###### 15
The Jews, therefore, because it was the preparation — that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day (for that Sabbath day was a high day) — implored Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away. Then came the soldiers and broke the legs of the first and of the other who was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they broke not his legs, but one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side and immediately came there out blood and water. And he that saw it bore record and his record is true. And he knows that he speaks truth, that you might believe. For these things were done that the scripture should be fulfilled: A bone of him shall not be broken. And again another scripture says: They shall look on him whom they pierced.

###### 16
And after this, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus (but secretly, for fear of the Jews), implored Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore and took the body of Jesus. And there came also Nicodemus, who at the first came to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pound weight. Then took they the body of Jesus and wound it in linen clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury. Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new sepulcher wherein was never man yet laid. There they laid Jesus therefore because of the Jews’ preparation day, for the sepulcher was near at hand.