[[../Luke/Luke 14|<< Luke 14]]  |  [[John 2|John 2 >>]]

# THE TESTIMONY OF JOHN
### Chapter 1
###### 1

In the beginning was the gospel preached through the Son. And the gospel was the word, and the word was with the Son, and the Son was with God, and the Son was of God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made which was made. In him was the gospel, and the gospel was the life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shines in the world, and the world perceives it not.

###### 2
There was a man sent from God whose name was John. The same came into the world for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, to bear record of the gospel through the Son unto all, that through him men might believe. He was not that Light, but came to bear witness of that Light, who was the true Light who lights every man who comes into the world, even the Son of God, he who was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God — only to them who believe on his name. He was born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the same Word was made flesh and dwelled among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.

###### 3
John bore witness of him and cried, saying, This is he of whom I spoke. He who comes after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. For in the beginning was the Word, even the Son, who is made flesh and sent unto us by the will of the Father. And as many as believe on his name shall receive of his fullness. And of his fullness have we all received, even immortality and eternal life through his grace. For the law was given through Moses, but life and truth came through Jesus Christ. For the law was after a carnal commandment, to the administration of death, but the gospel was after the power of an endless life through Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father. And no man has seen God at any time, except he has borne record of the Son, for except it is through him, no man can be saved.

###### 4
This is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? And he confessed and denied not that he was Elias, but confessed, saying, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, saying, How then are you Elias? And he said, I am not that Elias who was to restore all things. And they asked him, saying, Are you that prophet? And he answered, No. Then said they unto him, Who are you? — that we may give an answer to them who sent us. What do you say of yourself? He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness: Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaiah. And they who were sent were of the Pharisees. And they asked him and said unto him, Why do you baptize then, if you are not the Christ, nor Elias who was to restore all things, neither that prophet? John answered them, saying, I baptize with water, but there stands one among you whom you know not. He it is of whom I bear record. He is that Prophet, even Elias, who, coming after me, is preferred before me, whose shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to untie, or whose place I am not able to fill. For he shall baptize not only with water, but with fire, and with the holy ghost.

###### 5
The next day, John sees Jesus coming unto him, and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And John bore record of him unto the people, saying, This is he of whom I said, After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me, and I knew him, and that he should be made manifest to Israel. Therefore have I come baptizing with water. And John bore record, saying, When he was baptized of me, I saw the spirit descending from Heaven like a dove, and it abided upon him. And I knew him, for he who sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom you shall see the spirit descending and remaining on him, the same is he who baptizes with the holy ghost. And I saw and bore record that this is the Son of God. These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.

###### 6
Again the next day after, John stood, and two of his disciples, and looking upon Jesus as he walked, he said, Behold the Lamb of God. And the two disciples heard him speak and they followed Jesus. Then Jesus turned and saw them following him and said unto them, What do you seek? They said unto him, Rabbi — which is to say (being interpreted), Master — where do you dwell? He says unto them, Come and see. And they came and saw where he dwelled, and abided with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. One of the two who heard John and followed Jesus was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother. He first finds his own brother Simon, and said unto him, We have found the Messiah — which is (being interpreted) the Christ. And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, You are Simon the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas — which is (by interpretation) a seer, or a stone. And they were fishermen. And they immediately left all and followed Jesus.

###### 7
The day following, Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and found Philip, and said unto him, Follow me. Now Philip was at Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter. Philip found Nathanael, and said unto him, We have found him of whom Moses, in the law and the prophets, did write — Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip said unto him, Come and see. Jesus saw Nathanael coming unto him and said of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile. Nathanael said unto him, From where do you know me? Jesus answering said unto him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. Nathanael answered and said unto him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the king of Israel. Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto you, I saw you under the fig tree, you believe? You shall see greater things than these. And he said unto him, Truly, truly I say unto you, Hereafter you shall see Heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man.

###### 8
And on the third day of the week, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. And Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage. And when they lacked wine, his mother said unto him, They have no wine. Jesus said unto her, Woman, what will you have me to do for you? That will I do, for my hour has not yet come. His mother said unto the servants, Whatever he says unto you, see that you do it. There were set there six waterpots of stone after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece. Jesus said unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim. And he said, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bore unto him. When the governor of the feast had tasted the water which was made wine (he knew not from where it was, but the servants who drew the water knew), the governor of the feast called the bridegroom and said unto him, Every man at the beginning does set forth good wine, and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse. But you have kept the good wine until now. This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and the faith of his disciples was strengthened in him.

###### 9
After this, he went down to Capernaum — he and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples. And they continued there not many days. And the Jews’ Passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem and found in the temple those who sold oxen, and sheep, and doves, and changers of money, sitting. And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen, and poured out the changers’ money, and overthrew the tables. And he said unto them who sold doves, Take these things from here. Make not my Father’s house a house of merchandise. And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of your house has eaten me up.

###### 10
Then spoke the Jews and said unto him, What sign do you show unto us, seeing you do these things? Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up. Then said the Jews, Forty-six years was this temple in building, and will you rear it up in three days? But he spoke of the temple of his body; when therefore he had risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them, and they remembered the scripture and the word which Jesus had said unto them. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover on the feast day, many believed on his name when they saw the miracles which he did. But Jesus did not commit himself unto them because he knew all things and needed not that any should testify of man, for he knew what was in man.