[[John 7.md|<< John 7]]  |  [[John 9.md|John 9 >>]]

### Chapter 8
###### 1
On the next day, many people that had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna! Blessed is the King of Israel who comes in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had sent two of his disciples and got a young ass, sat thereon, as it is written: Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your King comes sitting on an ass’ colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him and that they had done these things unto him. The people therefore that were with him, when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead, bore record. For this cause, the people also met him, for they heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Do you perceive how we accomplish nothing? Behold, the world is gone after him.

###### 2
And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast. The same came therefore to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired of him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip comes and tells Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Truly, truly I say unto you, except a grain of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abides alone. But if it die, it brings forth much fruit. He that loves his life shall lose it, and he that hates his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my Father honor.

###### 3
Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say — Father, save me from this hour? But for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then came there a voice from Heaven, saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. The people therefore that stood by and heard it said that it thundered. Others said, An angel spoke to him. Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes. Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all unto me. This he said signifying what death he should die. The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abides for ever. And how can you say, The Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness come upon you, for he that walks in darkness knows not where he goes. While you have light, believe in the light, that you may be the children of light. Jesus spoke these things, and departed, and did hide himself from them.

###### 4
But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him, that the saying of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled which he spoke: Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore, they could not believe because Isaiah said again, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them. These things said Isaiah when he saw his glory and spoke of him.

###### 5
Nevertheless, among the chief rulers also many believed on him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue — for they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God.

###### 6
Jesus cried and said, He that believes on me, believes not on me, but on him that sent me! And he that sees me sees him that sent me. I have come, a light into the world, that whoever believes on me should not abide in darkness. And if any man hear my words and believe not, I judge him not; for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. He that rejects me and receives not my words has one that judges him. The word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day, for I have not spoken of myself, but the Father who sent me; he gave me a commandment — what I should say and what I should speak — and I know that his commandment is life everlasting. Whatever I speak, therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak.