[<< Isaiah 9](Isaiah%209)  |  [Isaiah 11 >>](Isaiah%2011)

### Chapter 10
###### 1
Behold, the name of the Lord comes from far, burning with his anger, and the burden thereof is heavy. His lips are full of indignation and his tongue as a devouring fire, and his breath as an overflowing stream shall reach to the middle of the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of vanity. And there shall be a bridle in the jaws of the people causing them to err. You shall have a song as in the night when a holy solemnity is kept, and gladness of heart as when one goes with a pipe, to come into the mountain of the Lord, to the Mighty One of Israel. And the Lord shall cause his glorious voice to be heard, and shall show the lighting down of his arm with the indignation of his anger and with the flame of a devouring fire, with scattering, and tempest, and hailstones. For through the voice of the Lord shall the Assyrian be beaten down which smote with a rod. And in every place where the grounded staff shall pass which the Lord shall lay upon him, it shall be with tambourines and harps; and in battles of shaking will he fight with it. For Topheth is ordained of old, yea, for the king it is prepared; he has made it deep and large, the pile thereof is fire and much wood; the breath of the Lord, like a stream of brimstone, does kindle it.

###### 2
Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help, and rely on horses and trust in chariots because they are many, and in horsemen because they are very strong, but they look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the Lord. Yet he also is wise, and will bring evil, and will not call back his words, but will arise against the house of the evildoers and against the help of them that work iniquity. Now the Egyptians are men, and not God, and their horses flesh, and not spirit.

###### 3
When the Lord shall stretch out his hand, both he that helps shall fall and he that is helped shall fall down, and they all shall fail together. For thus has the Lord spoken unto me: Like the lion and the young lion roaring on his prey when a multitude of shepherds is called forth against him, he will not be afraid of their voice nor abase himself for the noise of them; so shall the Lord of Hosts come down to fight for Mount Zion and for the hill thereof. As birds flying, so will the Lord of Hosts defend Jerusalem; defending also he will deliver it, and passing over he will preserve it.

###### 4
Turn unto him from whom the children of Israel have deeply revolted. For in that day, every man shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold which your own hands have made unto you for a sin. Then shall the Assyrian fall with the sword, not of a mighty man; and the sword (not of a mean man) shall devour him, but he shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall be defeated. And he shall pass over to his stronghold for fear, and his princes shall be afraid of the ensign, says the Lord, whose fire is in Zion and his furnace in Jerusalem.