[[Dragon.md|<< Dragon]]  |  [[Dwindle in Unbelief.md|Dwindle in Unbelief >>]]

### Dreams
Dreams are the will o’ the wisp, so insubstantial that modern, sophisticated society dismisses them without thought. Yet they are the stuff from which great messages have come from God throughout the scriptures. Dreams are the stuff of prophetic inspiration and the voice of God. The scriptures define God’s dealings with men in these terms: *And he said, Hear now my words: If there is a prophet among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto him in a vision and will speak unto him in a dream* (Numbers 7:22). In Job one reads this about God speaking with man: *Behold, in this you are not just. I will answer you that God is greater than man. Why do you quarrel against him? For he gives not account of all of his matters. For God speaks once *— *yea twice *— *yet man perceives it not. In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls upon men in slumberings upon the bed* (Job 11:7). “If, therefore, this is one of God’s historic and well-established ways of speaking to mankind, then you should expect it will be one of the means He will speak with you. If He elects to make Himself known to you in this manner, you have the high privilege and honor of having spoken with God. Do not expect Him to physically appear to anyone who has insufficient faith to accept His messages in dreams. If you will not accept the whisperings of His spirit through the feelings He sends to you, then why should He send more? If you are given a dream from Him but cannot accept it in faith, then why should He give more? If you are not willing to accept His proofs in faith, which come exactly as He promises they will come, then why should He send more? He has told us what to expect. When we do not expect them, or refuse to have faith in them, or refuse to accept them as proofs, then we are not following His path. But, if we accept them in faith as ... His mind, His will, and His voice, then our faith is sufficient. Signs follow faith. They do not produce it.”1



1 The [[#|Second Comforter]], 71–73.