[[Olive Tree|<< Olive Tree]]  |  [[Oracle|Oracle >>]]

### One Eternal Round
 There is no beginning, and there is no end; it is one eternal round.1 “This round of creation is only part of the cycle. We are part of endless cycles. Now. Today matters a great deal. Therefore, what you do here matters, infinitely and eternally. Set aside doubts, and have faith. It is the only way to change your eternal destiny. We should all want to be baptized and to be cleansed from sin. But, the prototype of the saved man requires more. We may only receive limited grace in this life, but we must hold fast. We cannot receive more if we will not receive all that is offered us now. If we will receive what is offered now, we will be added upon for ever and ever (Abraham 6:2). In other words, we move up the ladder by our heed and diligence in this cycle of creation. As we do, we will have so much the advantage in the next cycle.”2 Men and women can choose to move upward and be added upon, or they can choose to remain as they are, worlds without end. Now is part of eternity. Though mortal, all live in eternity and ought to take this opportunity seriously. The scriptures speak of things that happened “before the foundation of the world” or “in the first place” or “from the foundation of the world.” These statements make it clear that what went on prior to this creation matters and affects mankind now. In the same way, what one accepts in this life, by his heed and diligence, affects what comes after. The course all are on has been ordained by God and is one eternal round (Alma 5:5; 17:8; JSH 10:2; T&C 18:1). Even if someone has proven himself before, he must prove himself again, now.

God has been at this a long time. Christ has been involved in many repeated cycles of creation. Moses was told: *And by the word of my power have I created them, who is my Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth. And worlds without number have I created, and I also created them for my own purpose; and by the same I created them, who is my Only Begotten* [It is endless, and it is cyclical.] *For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power, and there are many that now stand, and numberless are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them *(Genesis 1:6). This is God’s great work. It has been going through cycles of creation, fall, redemption, judgment, and re-creation for ever. It is endless. Many unnumbered worlds have been, now are, and will yet be. The Lord told Moses just how vast this process is: *These are many and they cannot be numbered unto man, but they are numbered unto me for they are mine. And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come. And there is no end to my works, neither to my words* (Genesis 1: 7). This is a continual, endless cycle, worlds without end. Man falls into the cold realm of the temporal but is returned again to the spiritual. The process allows incremental development based on choices. When any cycle begins, man is spirit. When it is underway, man is temporal and physical. But when a cycle ends, man is spirit again. Humanity is nearing another turn of the wheel when wickedness ends. As modern revelation describes it, *For the hour is nigh and the day is soon at hand when the earth will be ripe, and all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble, and I will burn them up, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth*…. *For I will reveal myself from Heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand* (T&C 9:3). Then, *when the thousand years are ended and men again begin to deny their God, then will I spare the earth but for a little season, and the end shall come, and the Heaven and the earth shall be consumed and pass away, and there shall be a new Heaven and a new earth* (T&C 9:7). The cycle repeats, but nothing is lost. The old passes away, but everything is kept to be used again, *both men and beasts, the fowls of the air and the fishes of the sea, and not one hair neither mote shall be lost, for it is the workmanship of my hand* (T&C 9:7).3



1
[[#|TPJS]], 354; [[#|WJS]], 346, 352, 359; [[#|JSP]], Journals Vol. 3:220; WWJ, 2:385.


2
[[#|WJS]], 169, 172–173, 267n5, 268n4. D&C 130:18–19. Section 130 of the LDS Doctrine and Covenants first appeared as canon in the 1876 edition prepared by Orson Pratt under the direction of Brigham Young. Its inclusion here is for reference. For original sources see [[#|JSP]], Journals Vol. 2:323–326, (Dec. 1841 – April 1843), 2 April 1843. Willard Richards didn’t accompany Joseph Smith on his four-day trip to Ramus, IL, and reconstructed the Joseph Smith Journal entry from the Journal of William Clayton. See [[#|JSP]], Journals Vol. 2:403–405, Appendix 2, 1–4 April 1843.


3 Preserving the Restoration, 320–322.