[[Luke 13.md|<< Luke 13]]  |  [[../John/John 1.md|John 1 >>]]

### Chapter 14
###### 1
Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, the women came unto the sepulcher, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulcher, and two angels standing by it in shining garments. And they entered into the sepulcher and, not finding the body of the Lord Jesus, they were much perplexed thereabout, and were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth. But behold, the angels said unto them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spoke unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again? And they remembered his words, and returned from the sepulcher, and told all these things unto the eleven and to all the rest. It was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of Jacob, and other women who were with them, who told these things unto the apostles. And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not. Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulcher, and went in. And he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves. And he departed, wondering in himself at that which had come to pass.

###### 2
And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem sixty furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they spoke together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were held, or covered, that they could not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these which you have one with another as you walk and are sad? And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Are you a stranger in Jerusalem and have not known the things which have come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet, mighty in deed and word before God and all the people, and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he who should have redeemed Israel. And besides all this, today is the third day since these things were done, yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished who were early at the sepulcher. And when they found not his body, they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels who said that he was alive. And certain of them who were with us went to the sepulcher and found even so as the women had said, but him they saw not.

###### 3
Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.

###### 4
And they drew near unto the village to which they went, and he made as though he would have gone further, but they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass, as he sat at a meal with them, he took bread and blessed, and broke, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he was taken up out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us by the way and while he opened to us the scriptures?

###### 5
And they rose up the same hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and those who were with them, saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon. And they told what things they saw and heard in the way, and how he was known to them in breaking of bread.

###### 6
And as they thus spoke, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them and said unto them, Peace be unto you. But they were terrified and afraid, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. And he said unto them, Why are you troubled? And why do thoughts arise in your hearts? Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I, myself; handle me and see, for a spirit has not flesh and bones as you see me have. And when he had thus spoken, he showed them his hands and feet.

###### 7
And while they yet wondered and believed not for joy, he said unto them, Have you here any food? And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish and a honeycomb. And he took it and did eat before them. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spoke unto you while I was yet with you — that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. Then opened he their understanding that they might understand the scriptures, and said unto them, Thus it is written: And thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And you are witnesses of these things. And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you; but remain in the city of Jerusalem until you are endowed with power from on high.

###### 8
And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was taken from them and carried up into Heaven. And they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.