[[Luke 9.md|<< Luke 9]]  |  [[Luke 11.md|Luke 11 >>]]

### Chapter 10
###### 1
It came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Galilee and Samaria. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men who were lepers who stood afar off, and they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us! And he said unto them, Go show yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, as they went, they were cleansed. One of them, when he saw he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at Jesus’ feet, giving him thanks; and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God save this stranger. And he said unto him, Arise, go your way; your faith has made you whole.

###### 2
And when he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God comes not with observation, neither shall they say, Look here, or, Look there. For behold, the kingdom of God has already come unto you.

###### 3
And he said unto his disciples, The days will come when they will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and they shall not see it. And if they shall say to you, See here, or, See there, go not after them nor follow them; for as the light of the morning that shines out of the one part under heaven and lightens to the other part under heaven, so shall also the Son of Man be in his day. But first he must suffer many things and be rejected of this generation. And as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of Man. They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all. Likewise also, as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built — but the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed.

###### 4
In that day, the disciple who shall be on the housetop and his stuff in the house, let him not come down to take it away; and he who is in the field, let him likewise not return back. Remember Lot’s wife. Whoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it, and whoever shall lose his life shall preserve it. I tell you, in that night, there shall be two in one bed, the one shall be taken and the other shall be left. Two shall be grinding together, the one shall be taken and the other left. Two shall be in the field, the one shall be taken and the other left.

###### 5
And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord, shall they be taken? And he said unto them, Wherever the body is gathered, or in other words, wherever the saints are gathered, there will the eagles be gathered together, or there will the remainder be gathered together. This he spoke signifying the gathering of his saints and of angels descending and gathering the remainder unto them — the one from the bed, the other from the grinding, and the other from the field, wherever he wills. For truly there shall be new heavens and a new earth wherein dwells righteousness. And there shall be no unclean thing, for the earth becoming old even as a garment, having waxed in corruption; wherefore, it vanishes away and the footstool remains sanctified, cleansed from all sin.

###### 6
And he spoke a parable unto them (saying men ought always to pray and not faint), saying, There was in a city a judge who feared not God nor regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of my adversary. And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God nor regard man, yet because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge says. And shall not God avenge his own elect who cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with men? I tell you that he will come, and when he does come, he will avenge his saints speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, shall he find faith on the earth?

###### 7
He spoke this parable unto certain men who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others: Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself: God, I thank you that I am not as other men — extortionists, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. But the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto Heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself shall be abased, and he who humbles himself shall be exalted.

###### 8
And they brought unto him also infants, that he might touch them; but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them and said, Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. Truly I say unto you, Whoever will not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall by no means enter therein.

###### 9
And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said unto him, Why do you call me good? None is good save one, that is God. You know the commandments: Do not commit adultery. Do not kill. Do not steal. Do not bear false witness. Honor your father and your mother. And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up. Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet you lack one thing; sell all that you have and distribute unto the poor, and you shall have treasure in Heaven; and come follow me. And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How difficultly shall they who have riches enter into the kingdom of God, for it is easier for a camel to go through a needle’s eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. And they who heard said unto him, Who then can be saved? And he said unto them, It is impossible for them who trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God, but he who forsakes the things which are of this world, it is possible with God that he should enter in.

###### 10
Then Peter said, Behold, we have left all and followed you. And he said unto them, Truly I say unto you, there is no man who has left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God’s sake, who shall not receive manyfold more in this present time, and in the world to come, life everlasting.