[<< John 8](John%208.md)  |  [John 10 >>](John%2010.md)

### Chapter 9
###### 1
Now before the Feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them unto the end. And supper being ended, the Devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray him, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and went to God, he rose from supper, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel and girded himself.

###### 2
After he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded, then comes he to Simon Peter. And Peter says unto him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do, you do not know now, but you shall know hereafter. Peter says unto him, You do not need to wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash you not, you have no part with me. Simon Peter says unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus says to him, He that has washed his hands and his head needs not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit. And you are clean, but not all. Now this was the custom of the Jews under their law; wherefore, Jesus did this that the law might be fulfilled, for he knew who should betray him. Therefore said he, you are not all clean.

###### 3
So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was seated again, he said unto them, Do you know what I have done to you? You call me Master, and Lord, and you say well, for so I am. If I, then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet; for I have given you an example, that you should do as I have done to you. Truly, truly I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his lord, neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him. If you know these things, happy are you if you do them. I speak not of you all. I know whom I have chosen, but that the scripture may be fulfilled — He that eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me — now I tell you before it come, that when it has come to pass, you may believe that I am the Christ. Truly, truly I say unto you, he that receives whomever I send receives me, and he that receives me receives him that sent me.

###### 4
When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified and said, Truly, truly I say unto you that one of you shall betray me. Then the disciples looked one on another, wondering of whom he spoke. Now there was leaning on Jesus’ bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him that he should ask who it should be of whom he spoke. He then, lying on Jesus’ breast, says unto him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, He it is to whom I shall give a sop when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. And after the sop, Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That which you do, do quickly. Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spoke this unto him; for some of them thought, because Judas had the money bag, that Jesus had said unto him, Buy those things that we have need of against the feast, or that he should give something to the poor. He then, having received the sop, went immediately out; and it was night.

###### 5
Therefore, when he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God should be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall immediately glorify him. Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You shall seek me, and as I said unto the Jews — Where I go, you cannot come — so now I say to you. A new commandment I give unto you: that you love one another — as I have loved you, that you also love one another. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples — if you have love one to another.

###### 6
Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, Where I go, you cannot follow me now, but you shall follow me afterward. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow you now? I will lay down my life for your sake. Jesus answered him, Will you lay down your life for my sake? Truly, truly I say unto you, the cock shall not crow until you have denied me three times. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father’s kingdom are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And when I go, I will prepare a place for you, and come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am you may be also. And to where I go you know, and the way you know.

###### 7
Thomas says unto him, Lord, we know not to where you go. And how can we know the way? Jesus says unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes unto the Father but by me. If you had known me, you should have known my Father also, and from henceforth you know him and have seen him. Philip says unto him, Lord, show us the Father and it suffices us. Jesus says unto him, Have I been so long time with you and yet you have not known me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father. And how can you then say, Show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me? The words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwells in me. He does the works. Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father in me, or else believe me for the very works’ sake. Truly, truly I say unto you, he that believes on me, the works that I do shall he do also. And greater works than these shall he do, because I go unto my Father. And whatever you shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you shall ask anything in my name, I will do it.

###### 8
If you love me, keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may be with you for ever — even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it sees him not, neither knows him. But you know him, for he dwells with you, and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. Yet a little while and the world sees me no more, but you see me. Because I live, you shall live also. At that day, you shall know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. He that has my commandments and keeps them, he it is that loves me. And he that loves me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him and will manifest myself to him. Judas says unto him (not Iscariot), Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself unto us and not unto the world? Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words, and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him and make our abode with him. He that loves me not keeps not my sayings. And the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father’s, who sent me.

###### 9
These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you. But the Comforter, who is the holy ghost whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance — whatever I have said unto you. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you — not as the world gives, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. You have heard how I said unto you, I go away and come again unto you. If you loved me, you would rejoice because I said, I go unto the Father — for my Father is greater than I. And now I have told you before it comes to pass, that when it has come to pass, you might believe. Hereafter, I will not talk much with you, for the prince of darkness (who is of this world) comes, but has no power over me, but he has power over you. And I tell you these things that you may know that I love the Father. And as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go from here.

###### 10
I am the true vine and my Father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that bears not fruit, he takes away. And every branch that bears fruit, he purges it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine, no more can you except you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. He that abides in me and I in him, the same brings forth much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered, and men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you shall ask what you desire and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified: that you bear much fruit — so shall you be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Continue in my love. If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my Father’s commandments and abide in his love. These things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you and that your joy might be full.

###### 11
This is my commandment: That you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no man than this: that a man lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do whatever I command you. Henceforth, I call you not servants, for the servant knows not what his lord does; but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain, that whatever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. These things I command you, that you love one another.

###### 12
If the world hate you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said unto you: The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also; but all these things will they do unto you for my name’s sake because they know not him that sent me. If I had not come and spoken unto them, they would not have had sin; but now they have no cloak for their sin. He that hates me hates my Father also. If I had not done among them the works which no other man did, they would not have had sin. But now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father. But this comes to pass that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law: They hated me without a cause.

###### 13
But when the Comforter has come whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the spirit of truth which proceeds from the Father, he shall testify of me. And you also shall bear witness because you have been with me from the beginning. These things have I spoken unto you that you should not be offended. They shall put you out of the synagogues. Yea, the time comes that whoever kills you will think that he does God service. And these things will they do unto you because they have not known the Father nor me. But these things have I told you that when the time shall come, you may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not unto you at the beginning because I was with you. But now I go my way to him that sent me, and none of you asks me, Where do you go? — but because I have said these things unto you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth; it is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you. And when he has come, he will remind the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: of sin because they believe not on me; of righteousness because I go to my Father and they see me no more; of judgment because the prince of this world is judged.

###### 14
I have yet many things to say unto you, but you cannot bear them now. Nevertheless, when he, the spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth; for he shall not speak of himself, but whatever he shall hear, that shall he speak. And he will show you things to come. He shall glorify me, for he shall receive of mine and shall show it unto you. All things that the Father has are mine, therefore said I that he shall take of mine and shall show it unto you. A little while and you shall not see me, and again a little while and you shall see me because I go to the Father.

###### 15
Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he says unto us: A little while and you shall not see me; and again a little while and you shall see me; and, because I go to the Father? They said, therefore, What is this that he says: A little while? We cannot tell what he says.

###### 16
Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto them, Do you inquire among yourselves of that I said — A little while and you shall not see me, and again a little while and you shall see me? Truly, truly I say unto you that you shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice. And you shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. A woman when she is in travail has sorrow because her hour has come, but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembers no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world. And you now therefore have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man takes from you. And in that day, you shall ask me nothing but it shall be done unto you. Truly, truly I say unto you, whatever you shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. Hitherto have you asked nothing in my name. Ask and you shall receive, that your joy may be full.

###### 17
These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs, but the time comes when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall show you plainly of the Father. At that day, you shall ask in my name and I say not unto you that I will ask the Father for you, for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came out from God. I came forth from the Father and have come into the world. Again, I leave the world and go to the Father.

###### 18
His disciples said unto him, Behold, now speak you plainly and speak no proverb. Now are we sure that you know all things and need not that any man should ask you. By this we believe that you came forth from God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour comes, yea, has now come, that you shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone — and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. These things I have spoken unto you that in me you might have peace. In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.

###### 19
Jesus spoke these words, and lifted up his eyes to Heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son also may glorify you, as you have given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And this is life eternal: that they might know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. I have glorified you on the earth. I have finished the work which you gave me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the world was.

###### 20
I have manifested your name unto the men whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever you have given me are of you, for I have given unto them the words which you gave me and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from you; and they have believed that you did send me. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them whom you have given me, for they are yours. And all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep through your own name those whom you have given me, that they may be agreed as one as we are. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me I have kept, and none of them is lost but the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. And now come I to you. And these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through your truth; your word is truth. As you have sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth.

###### 21
Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also who shall believe on me through their word, that they all may be agreed as one as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be agreed as one in us, that the world may believe that you have sent me. And the glory which you gave me I have given them, that they may be agreed as one even as we are one — I in them, and you in me — that they may be made perfect in agreement as one, and that the world may know that you have sent me, and have loved them as you have loved me. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the world has not known you, but I have known you, and these have known that you have sent me. And I have declared unto them your name, and will declare it, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them.