[<< John 5](John%205.md)  |  [John 7 >>](John%207.md)

### Chapter 6
###### 1
After these things, Jesus walked in Galilee, for he would not walk in Judea because the Jews sought to kill him. Now the Jews’ feast of tabernacles was at hand. His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart from here and go into Judea, that your disciples there also may see the works that you do; for there is no man that does anything in secret but he himself seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world. For neither did his brethren believe in him.

###### 2
Then Jesus said unto them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready. The world cannot hate you, but me it hates because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil. Go up unto this feast. I go not up yet unto this feast for my time has not yet fully come. When he had said these words unto them, he continued still in Galilee. But after his brethren had gone up, then went he also up unto the feast — not openly, but as if in secret.

###### 3
Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he? And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him, for some said, He is a good man; others said, Nay, but he deceives the people. Nevertheless, no man spoke openly of him for fear of the Jews.

###### 4
Now about the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught. And the Jews marveled, saying, How does this man know letters, having never learned? Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine whether it is of God or whether I speak of myself. He that speaks of himself seeks his own glory, but he that seeks his glory that sent him, the same is true and no unrighteousness is in him.

###### 5
Did not Moses give you the law? And yet none of you keeps the law? Why do you go about to kill me? The people answered and said, You have a devil. Who goes about to kill you? Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and you all marvel. Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers) and you on the Sabbath day circumcise a man. If a man on the Sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken, are you angry at me because I have made a man every whit whole on the Sabbath day? Judge not according to your traditions, but judge righteous judgment.

###### 6
Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he whom they seek to kill? But behold, he speaks boldly and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ? Nevertheless, we know this man, from where he is, but when Christ comes, no man knows from where he is. Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, You both know me and you know from where I am! And I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom you know not; but I know him, for I am from him, and he has sent me. Then they sought to take him, but no man laid hands on him because his hour had not yet come. And many of the people believed on him and said, When Christ comes, will he do more miracles than these which this man has done?

###### 7
The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him. Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while I am with you, and then I go unto him that sent me. You shall seek me and shall not find me, and where I am, there you cannot come. Then said the Jews among themselves, Where will he go that we shall not find him? Will he go unto the dispersed among the gentiles and teach the gentiles? What manner of saying is this that he said, You shall seek me and shall not find me, and where I am, there you cannot come?

###### 8
In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink! He that believes on me as the scripture has said: Out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water — but this spoke he of the spirit which they that believe on him should receive, for the holy ghost was promised unto them who believe, after Jesus was glorified. Many of the people, therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Truly this is the Prophet. Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee? Has not the scripture said that Christ comes of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem where David was? So there was a division among the people because of him. And some of them would have taken him, but no man laid hands on him.

###### 9
Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said unto them, Why have you not brought him? The officers answered, Never did man speak like this man. Then the Pharisees answered them, Are you also deceived? Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him? But this people who knows not the law are cursed. Nicodemus says unto them (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them), Does our law judge any man before it hear him and know what he does? They answered and said unto him, Are you also of Galilee? Search and look, for out of Galilee arises no prophet. And every man went unto his own house. And Jesus went unto the Mount of Olives.

###### 10
Early in the morning, he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him, and he sat down and taught them. And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery. And when they had set her in the middle of the people, they say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. Now Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned, but what do you say? This they said testing him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down and with his finger wrote on the ground. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. And they who heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last.

###### 11
And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the middle of the temple. When Jesus had raised up himself, and saw none of her accusers and the woman standing, he said unto her, Woman, where are those your accusers? Has no man condemned you? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn you. Go and sin no more. And the woman glorified God from that hour, and believed on his name.

###### 12
Then spoke Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. The Pharisees therefore said unto him, You bear record of yourself, your record is not true. Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true, for I know from where I came and to where I go, but you cannot tell from where I come and to where I go. You judge after the flesh. I judge no man. And yet if I judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. It is also written in your law that the testimony of two men is true. I am one that bears witness of myself, and the Father that sent me bears witness of me. Then said they unto him, Where is your Father? Jesus answered, You neither know me nor my Father. If you had known me, you should have known my Father also. Jesus spoke these words in the treasury as he taught in the temple. And no man laid hands on him for his hour had not yet come.

###### 13
Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and you shall seek me and shall die in your sins. Where I go, you cannot come. Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? — because he says, Where I go, you cannot come. And he said unto them, You are from beneath, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. I said therefore unto you that you shall die in your sins, for if you believe not that I am he, you shall die in your sins. Then said they unto him, Who are you? And Jesus says unto them, Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning. I have many things to say and to judge of you, but he that sent me is true and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him. They understood not that he spoke to them of the Father. Then said Jesus unto them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then shall you know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself. But as my Father has taught me, I speak these things. And he that sent me is with me; the Father has not left me alone, for I do always those things that please him. As he spoke these words, many believed on him.

###### 14
Then said Jesus to those Jews who believed on him, If you continue in my word, then are you my disciples indeed. And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. They answered him, We are Abraham’s seed and were never in bondage to any man. How can you say, You shall be made free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say unto you, whoever commits sin is the servant of sin, and the servant abides not in the house for ever, but the Son abides ever. If the Son therefore shall make you free, you shall be free indeed.

###### 15
I know that you are Abraham’s seed, but you seek to kill me because my word has no place in you. I speak that which I have seen with my Father, and you do that which you have seen with your father. They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said unto them, If you were Abraham’s children, you would do the works of Abraham. But now you seek to kill me, a man that has told you the truth, which I have heard of God. This did not Abraham. You do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We are not born of fornication. We have one Father, even God. Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, you would love me, for I proceeded forth and came from God. Neither came I of myself, but he sent me. Why do you not understand my speech? Even because you cannot bear my word. You are of your father the Devil, and the lusts of your father you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and stood not in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. And because I tell you the truth, you believe me not. Which of you convicts me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do you not believe me? He that is of God receives God’s word. You therefore receive them not because you are not of God.

###### 16
Then answered the Jews and said unto him, Do we not say well that you are a Samaritan and have a devil? Jesus answered, I have not a devil, but I honor my Father, and you do dishonor me. And I seek not my own glory. There is one that seeks and judges. Truly, truly I say unto you, if a man keep my saying, he shall never see death. Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that you have a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets. And you say, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste of death. Are you greater than our father Abraham, who is dead? And the prophets are dead. Whom do you make yourself? Jesus answered, If I honor myself, my honor is nothing. It is my Father that honors me, of whom you say that he is your God, yet you have not known him; but I know him. And if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you. But I know him and keep his saying. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. Then said the Jews unto him, You are not yet fifty years old and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said unto them, Truly, truly I say unto you, before Abraham was, I Am. Then took they up stones to cast at him, but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by.

###### 17
And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man who was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, Neither has this man sinned nor his parents. But that the works of God should be made manifest in him I must work the works of him that sent me while I am with you. The time comes when I shall have finished my work, then I go unto the Father. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay, and said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam — which is (by interpretation) Sent. He went his way, therefore, and washed, and came seeing.

###### 18
The neighbors therefore and they who before had seen him (that he was blind) said, Is not this he that sat and begged? Some said, This is he; others said, He is like him. But he said, I am he. Therefore said they unto him, How were your eyes opened? He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed my eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. And I went and washed, and I received sight. Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not.

###### 19
And they brought him who had been blind to the Pharisees. And it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon my eyes, and I washed and do see. Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God because he keeps not the Sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them. They say unto the blind man again, What do you say of him who has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet.

###### 20
But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight. And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son and that he was born blind, but by what means he now sees, we know not, or who has opened his eyes, we know not. He is of age, ask him; he shall speak for himself. These words spoke his parents because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had agreed already that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. Therefore said his parents, He is of age, ask him.

###### 21
Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise, we know that this man is a sinner. He answered and said, Whether he is a sinner, I know not. One thing I know — that whereas I was blind, now I see. Then said they to him again, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I have told you already and you did not believe. Why would you believe if I should tell you again? Would you be his disciples? Then they reviled him, and said, You are his disciple, but we are Moses’ disciples. We know that God spoke unto Moses. As for this man, we know not from where he is. The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvelous thing, that you know not from where he is, and yet he has opened my eyes. Now we know that God hears not sinners, but if any man is a worshipper of God and does his will, him he hears. Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind, except he be of God. If this man were not of God, he could do nothing. They answered and said unto him, You were altogether born in sins, and do you teach us? And they cast him out.

###### 22
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he had found him, he said unto him, Do you believe on the Son of God? He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? And Jesus said unto him, You have both seen him and it is he that talks with you. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him.

###### 23
And Jesus said, For judgment I have come into this world, that they who see not might see, and that they who see might be made blind. And some of the Pharisees who were with him heard these words and said unto him, Are we blind also? Jesus said unto them, If you were blind, you should have no sin, but now you say, We see; therefore, your sin remains.

###### 24
Truly, truly I say unto you, he that enters not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbs up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. But he that enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him, the porter opens and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. And when he puts forth his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him for they know his voice. And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know not the voice of strangers. This parable spoke Jesus unto them, but they understood not what things they were which he spoke unto them.

###### 25
Then said Jesus unto them again, Truly, truly I say unto you, I am the door of the sheepfold. All that ever came before me who testified not of me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture. The thief comes not but to steal, and to kill, and to destroy. I have come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

###### 26
I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for his sheep. And the shepherd is not as a hired hand, whose own the sheep are not, who sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep, and flees, and the wolf catches the sheep and scatters them. For I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. But he who is a hired hand flees because he is a hired hand and cares not for the sheep. As the Father knows me, even so know I the Father. And I lay down my life for the sheep. And other sheep I have which are not of this fold. Them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice, and there shall be one fold and one shepherd.

###### 27
For this reason does my Father love me — because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. No man takes it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father.

###### 28
There was a division therefore again among the Jews for these sayings, and many of them said, He has a devil and is mad. Why do you hear him? Others said, These are not the words of him that has a devil, can a devil open the eyes of the blind?

###### 29
And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was winter. And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon’s porch. Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him, How long do you make us to doubt? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you and you believed not. The works that I do in my Father’s name, they bear witness of me. But you believe not because you are not of my sheep, as I said unto you. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My Father, who gave them to me, is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father’s hand. I and my Father are one.

###### 30
Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, Many good works have I showed you from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me? The Jews answered him, saying, For a good work we stone you not, but for blasphemy, and because you, being a man, make yourself God. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law: I said, you are gods? If he called them gods unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken, do you say of him whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, You blaspheme, because I said I am the Son of God? If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not; but if I do, though you believe not me, believe the works, that you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in him. Therefore, they sought again to take him. But he escaped out of their hand and went away again, beyond Jordan into the place where John at first baptized, and there he abided. And many went unto him and said, John did no miracle, but all things that John spoke of this man were true. And many believed on him there.