[[Luke 10|<< Luke 10]]  |  [[Luke 12|Luke 12 >>]]

### Chapter 11
###### 1
Then he took the twelve and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things which are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished, for he shall be delivered unto the gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully treated, and spit on; and they shall scourge and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hidden from them, neither remembered they the things which were spoken.

###### 2
And it came to pass, as he came near Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the wayside begging. And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth passed by. And he cried, saying, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me! And they who went before rebuked him, telling him that he should hold his peace. But he cried so much the more, saying, Son of David, have mercy on me! And Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought unto him. And when he had come near, he asked him, saying, What do you desire that I shall do unto you? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Receive your sight; your faith has saved you. And immediately he received his sight and he followed him, glorifying God. And all the disciples, when they saw this, gave praise unto God.

###### 3
And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus who was chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And he sought to see Jesus, who he was, and could not for the crowd because he was little of stature. And he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must abide at your house. And he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. And when the disciples saw it, they all murmured, saying that he had gone to be guest with a man who is a sinner.

###### 4
And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from any man by unjust means, I restore fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost.

###### 5
And as they heard these things, he added and spoke a parable because he was near to Jerusalem, and because the Jews taught that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return. And he called his ten servants, and he delivered them ten pounds and said unto them, Trade until I come. But his citizens hated him and sent a messenger after him, saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. And it came to pass that when he had returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every man had gained by trading.

###### 6
Then came the first, saying, Lord, your pound has gained ten pounds. And he said unto him, Well done you good servant; because you have been faithful in a very little, have authority over ten cities. And the second came, saying, Lord, your pound has gained five pounds. And he said likewise to him, Be also over five cities. And another came, saying, Lord, behold your pound which I have kept laid up in a napkin, for I feared you because you are an austere man: you take up that you laid not down, and reap that which you do not sow. And he said unto him, Out of your own mouth will I judge you, O wicked servant. You knew that I was an austere man, taking up that which I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow. Why then did you not give my money into the bank, that at my coming I might have received my own with usury? And he said unto them who stood by, Take from him the pound and give to him who has ten pounds. For I say unto you that unto everyone who trades shall be given, and from him who trades not, even that he has received shall be taken away from him. But those my enemies who desire not that I should reign over them, bring them here and slay them before me.