[[Exodus 18|<< Exodus 18]]  |  [[Exodus 20|Exodus 20 >>]]

### Chapter 19
###### 1
And it came to pass when Moses came down from Mount Sinai, with the two tablets of testimony in Moses’ hand when he came down from the mount, that Moses knew not that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him. And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him. And Moses called unto them. And Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned unto him, and Moses talked with them. And afterward, all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them in commandment all that the Lord had spoken with him in Mount Sinai. And until Moses was done speaking with them, he put a veil on his face. But when Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he took the veil off until he came out. And he came out and spoke unto the children of Israel that which he was commanded. And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses’ face shone. And Moses put the veil upon his face again until he went in to speak with the Lord.

###### 2
And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together, and said unto them, These are the words which the Lord has commanded, that you should do them: Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall be to you a holy day, a Sabbath of rest to the Lord. Whoever does work therein shall be put to death. You shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the Sabbath day.

###### 3
And Moses spoke unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the Lord commanded, saying, Take from among you an offering unto the Lord. Whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the Lord: gold, and silver, and brass, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’ hair, and rams’ skins dyed red, and badgers’ skins, and shittim wood, and oil for the light, and spices for anointing oil and for the sweet incense, and onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate. And every wise-hearted among you shall come and make all that the Lord has commanded: the tabernacle, his tent and his covering, his clasps and his boards, his bars, his pillars and his sockets, the ark and the staves thereof, with the mercy seat and the veil of the covering, the table and his staves and all his vessels, and the showbread, the candlestick also for the light and his furniture, and his lamps with the oil for the light, and the incense altar and his staves, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entering in of the tabernacle, the altar of burnt offering with his brazen grate, his staves and all his vessels, the basin and his foot, the hangings of the court, his pillars and their sockets, and the hanging for the door of the court, the pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the court and their cords, the cloths of service to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons to minister in the priest’s office.

###### 4
And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses. And they came, everyone whose heart stirred him up and everyone whom his spirit made willing, and they brought the Lord’s offering to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all his service, and for the holy garments. And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing-hearted, and brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets — all jewels of gold. And every man that offered, offered an offering of gold unto the Lord. And every man with whom was found blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’ hair, and red skins of rams, and badgers’ skins brought them. Everyone that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought the Lord’s offering. And every man with whom was found shittim wood for any work of the service brought it.

###### 5
And all the women that were wise-hearted did spin with their hands and brought that which they had spun, both of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine linen. And all the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun goats’ hair. And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate, and spice, and oil for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense. The children of Israel brought a willing offering unto the Lord, every man and woman whose heart made them willing to bring, for all manner of work which the Lord had commanded to be made by the hand of Moses.

###### 6
And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the Lord has called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah; and he has filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, and to devise clever works: to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in the cutting of stones to set them, and in carving of wood — to make any manner of skillful work. And he has put in his heart that he may teach, both he and Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan. Them has he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of work of the engraver, and of the skillful workman, and of the embroiderer in blue and in purple, in scarlet and in fine linen, and of the weaver — even of them that do any work and of those that devise clever work.

###### 7
Then wrought Bezalel, and Oholiab, and every wise-hearted man, in whom the Lord put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that the Lord had commanded. And Moses called Bezalel, and Oholiab, and every wise-hearted man, in whose heart the Lord had put wisdom — even everyone whose heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it — and they received of Moses all the offering which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning. And all the wise men that wrought all the work of the sanctuary came, every man from his work which they made. And they spoke unto Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work which the Lord commanded to make. And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing, for the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work, to make it, and too much.

###### 8
And every wise-hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet; with cherubim of skillful work he made them. The length of one curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits. The curtains were all of one size. And he coupled the five curtains one unto another, and the other five curtains he coupled one unto another. And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain, from the selvage, in the coupling; likewise he made in the outermost side of another curtain, in the coupling of the second. Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in the edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second. The loops held one curtain to another. And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains one unto another with the clasps, so it became one tabernacle.

###### 9
And he made curtains of goats’ hair for the tent over the tabernacle — eleven curtains he made them. The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits was the breadth of one curtain. The eleven curtains were of one size. And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves. And he made fifty loops upon the outermost edge of the curtain, in the coupling, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtain which couples the second. And he made fifty clasps of brass to couple the tent together, that it might be one. And he made a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red, and a covering of badgers’ skins above that.

###### 10
And he made boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standing up. The length of a board was ten cubits, and the breadth of a board one cubit and a half. One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another. Thus did he make for all the boards of the tabernacle. And he made boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side southward. And forty sockets of silver he made under the twenty boards: two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons. And for the other side of the tabernacle, which is toward the north corner, he made twenty boards, and their forty sockets of silver: two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board. And for the sides of the tabernacle westward, he made six boards. And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides. And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the head thereof to one ring. Thus he did to both of them, in both the corners. And there were eight boards, and their sockets were sixteen sockets of silver, under every board two sockets.

###### 11
And he made bars of shittim wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the sides westward. And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from the one end to the other. And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold to be places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.

###### 12
And he made a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen; with cherubim he made it of skillful work. And he made for it four pillars of shittim wood and overlaid them with gold. Their hooks were of gold, and he cast for them four sockets of silver. And he made a hanging for the tabernacle door — of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework — and the five pillars of it with their hooks. And he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold, but their five sockets were of brass.

###### 13
And Bezalel made the ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half was the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it. And he overlaid it with pure gold within and without, and made a molding of gold to it round about. And he cast for it four rings of gold to be set by the four corners of it, even two rings upon the one side of it and two rings upon the other side of it. And he made staves of shittim wood and overlaid them with gold. And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, to bear the ark. And he made the mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half was the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof. And he made two cherubim of gold, beaten out of one piece he made them, on the two ends of the mercy seat: one cherub on the end on this side, and another cherub on the other end on that side. Out of the mercy seat made he the cherubim on the two ends thereof. And the cherubim spread out their wings on high and covered with their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another. Even toward the mercy seat were the faces of the cherubim.

###### 14
And he made the table of shittim wood: two cubits was the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. And he overlaid it with pure gold and made for it a molding of gold round about. Also, he made for it a border of a handbreadth round about, and made a molding of gold for the border thereof round about. And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings upon the four corners that were in the four feet thereof. Close to the border were the rings, the places for the staves to bear the table. And he made the staves of shittim wood and overlaid them with gold, to bear the table. And he made the vessels which were upon the table — his dishes, and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover with — of pure gold.

###### 15
And he made the candlestick of pure gold. Of beaten work made he the candlestick: his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his buds, and his flowers were of the same, and six branches going out of the sides thereof: three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof. Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in one branch, a bud and a flower, and three bowls made like almonds in another branch, a bud and a flower; so throughout the six branches going out of the candlestick. And in the candlestick were four bowls made like almonds, his buds and his flowers, and a bud under two branches of the same, and a bud under two branches of the same, and a bud under two branches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it. Their buds and their branches were of the same. All of it was one beaten work of pure gold. And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and his snuff dishes of pure gold. Of a talent of pure gold he made it, and all the vessels thereof.

###### 16
And he made the incense altar of shittim wood. The length of it was a cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; it was square, and two cubits was the height of it. The horns thereof were of the same. And he overlaid it with pure gold — both the top of it, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns of it. Also, he made unto it a molding of gold round about. And he made two rings of gold for it under the molding thereof, by the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places for the staves to bear it. And he made the staves of shittim wood and overlaid them with gold.

###### 17
And he made the holy anointing oil and the pure incense of sweet spices, according to the work of the apothecary.

###### 18
And he made the altar of burnt offering of shittim wood: five cubits was the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth thereof; it was square, and three cubits the height thereof. And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it. The horns thereof were of the same. And he overlaid it with brass.

###### 19
And he made all the vessels of the altar: the pots, and the shovels, and the basins, and the forks, and the firepans. All the vessels thereof made he of brass. And he made for the altar a brazen grate of network under the rim thereof, beneath, unto the center of it. And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass, to be places for the staves. And he made the staves of shittim wood and overlaid them with brass. And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar, to bear it. He made the altar hollow with boards. And he made the basin of brass and the foot of it of brass, of the mirrors of the women assembling, who assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

###### 20
And he made the court: On the south side southward, the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, a hundred cubits. Their pillars were twenty and their brazen sockets twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. And for the north side, the hangings were a hundred cubits, their pillars were twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver. And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver. And for the east side eastward, fifty cubits. The hangings of the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits, their pillars three and their sockets three. And for the other side of the court gate, on this side and that side, were hangings of fifteen cubits, their pillars three and their sockets three. All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen. And the sockets for the pillars were of brass, the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters of silver. And all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver. And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen; and twenty cubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits, corresponding to the hangings of the court. And their pillars were four and their sockets of brass four, their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters and their fillets of silver. And all the pins of the tabernacle and of the court round about were of brass.

###### 21
This is the sum of the tabernacle, even of the tabernacle of testimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaron the priest. And Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the Lord commanded Moses. And with him was Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a skillful workman, and an embroiderer in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and fine linen.

###### 22
All the gold that was occupied for the work, in all the work of the holy place, even the gold of the offering, was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary. And the silver of them that were numbered of the congregation was a hundred talents and a thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary. A bekah for every man — that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary — for everyone that went to be numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty men. And of the hundred talents of silver were cast the sockets of the sanctuary and the sockets of the veil: a hundred sockets of the hundred talents, a talent for a socket. And of the thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels, he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their chapiters, and filleted them. And the brass of the offering was seventy talents and two thousand four hundred shekels. And with it, he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the brazen altar, and the brazen grate, for it and all the vessels of the altar, and the sockets of the court round about, and the sockets of the court gate, and all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about.

###### 23
And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths of service to do service in the holy place, and made the holy garments for Aaron, as the Lord commanded Moses. And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen. And they did beat the gold into thin plates and cut it into wires, to work it in the blue, and in the purple, and in the scarlet, and in the fine linen with skillful work. They made shoulder pieces for it, to couple it together. By the two edges was it coupled together. And the skillfully woven band of his ephod that was upon it was of the same, according to the work thereof, of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, as the Lord commanded Moses. And they wrought onyx stones enclosed in sockets of gold, engraved as signets are engraved, with the names of the children of Israel. And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, that they should be stones for a memorial to the children of Israel, as the Lord commanded Moses.

###### 24
And he made the breastplate of skillful work, like the work of the ephod, of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen. It was square. They made the breastplate double: a span was the length thereof, and a span the breadth thereof, being doubled. And they set in it four rows of stones. The first row was a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle; this was the first row. And the second row: an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond. And the third row: a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. And the fourth row: a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in sockets of gold in their settings. And the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel — twelve according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, every one with his name according to the twelve tribes. And they made upon the breastplate chains at the ends of braided work of pure gold. And they made two sockets of gold and two gold rings, and put the two rings in the two ends of the breastplate. And they put the two braided chains of gold in the two rings on the ends of the breastplate. And the two ends of the two braided chains they fastened in the two sockets, and put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod before it. And they made two rings of gold and put them on the two ends of the breastplate, upon the border of it which was on the side of the ephod inward. And they made two other golden rings and put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart of it, close to the other coupling thereof, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod. And they did bind the breastplate by his rings unto the rings of the ephod with a cord of blue, that it might be above the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not be loosened from the ephod, as the Lord commanded Moses.

###### 25
And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue. And there was a hole in the middle of the robe as the hole of a habergeon, with a band round about the hole, that it should not rend. And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen. And they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates, upon the hem of the robe round about between the pomegranates: a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, round about the hem of the robe to minister in, as the Lord commanded Moses.

###### 26
And they made coats of fine linen, of woven work, for Aaron and for his sons, and a miter of fine linen, and handsome caps of fine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen, and a sash of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet of needlework, as the Lord commanded Moses. And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote upon it a writing like to the engravings of a signet: HOLINESS TO THE LORD. And they tied unto it a cord of blue to fasten it on high upon the miter, as the Lord commanded Moses.

###### 27
Thus was all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation finished. And the children of Israel did according to all that the Lord commanded Moses; so did they. And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses, the tent and all his furniture, his clasps, his boards, his bars, and his pillars, and his sockets, and the covering of rams’ skins dyed red, and the covering of badgers’ skins, and the veil of the covering, the ark of the testimony and the staves thereof, and the mercy seat, the table and all the vessels thereof, and the showbread, the pure candlestick with the lamps thereof, even with the lamps to be set in order and all the vessels thereof, and the oil for light, and the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the tabernacle door, the brazen altar and his grate of brass, his staves and all his vessels, the basin and his foot, the hangings of the court, his pillars and his sockets, and the hanging for the court gate, his cords and his pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of the congregation, the cloths of service to do service in the holy place, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and his sons’ garments to minister in the priest’s office. According to all that the Lord commanded Moses, so the children of Israel made all the work. And Moses did look upon all the work, and behold, they had done it as the Lord had commanded; even so had they done it. And Moses blessed them.