[<< Genesis 3](Genesis%203)  |  [Genesis 5 >>](Genesis%205)

### Chapter 4
###### 1
And it came to pass that Enoch journeyed in the land among the people. And as he journeyed, the spirit of God descended out of Heaven and abided upon him. And he heard a voice from Heaven saying, Enoch, my son, prophesy unto this people and say unto them, Repent, for thus says the Lord: I am angry with this people and my fierce anger is kindled against them, for their hearts have waxed hard, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes cannot see afar off. And for these many generations, even since the day that I created them, have they gone astray, and have denied me, and have sought their own counsels in the dark. And in their own abominations have they devised murder and have not kept the commandment which I gave unto their father Adam. Wherefore, they have falsely sworn themselves, and by their oaths they have brought upon themselves death. And a hell I have prepared for them if they repent not. And this is a decree which I have sent forth in the beginning of the world, from my own mouth, from the foundation thereof. And by the mouths of my servants your fathers have I decreed it, even as it shall be sent forth in the world unto the end thereof.

###### 2
And when Enoch had heard these words, he bowed himself to the earth before the Lord, and spoke before the Lord, saying, Why is it that I have found favor in your sight, and am but a lad, and all the people hate me, for I am slow of speech; why am I your servant? And the Lord said unto Enoch, Go forth and do as I have commanded you and no man shall pierce you. Open your mouth and it shall be filled; I will give you utterance. For all flesh is in my hands, and I will do as seems me good. Say unto this people, Choose this day to serve the Lord God who made you. Behold, my spirit is upon you; wherefore, all your words will I justify. And the mountains shall flee before you, and the rivers shall turn from their course, and you shall abide in me, and I in you. Therefore, walk with me.

###### 3
And the Lord spoke unto Enoch, and said unto him, Anoint your eyes with clay and wash them, and you shall see. And he did so. And he beheld the spirits that God had created, and he beheld also things which were not visible. And from that point forward came the saying abroad in the land, A seer has the Lord raised up unto his people.

###### 4
And it came to pass that Enoch went forth in the land among the people, standing upon the hills and the high places, and cried with a loud voice testifying against their works. And all men were offended because of him. And they came forth to hear him upon the high places, saying unto the tent-keepers, Stay here and keep the tents while we go there to behold the seer, for he prophesies. And there is a strange thing in the land: a wild man has come among us. And it came to pass, when they heard him, no man laid their hands on him, for fear came on all them that heard him, for he walked with God.

###### 5
And there came a man unto him, whose name was Mahijah, and said unto him, Tell us plainly who you are and from where you came. And he says unto them, I came out from the land of Cainan, the land of my fathers, a land of righteousness unto this day; and my father taught me in all the ways of God. And it came to pass, as I journeyed from the land of Cainan by the sea east, I beheld a vision, and lo, the Heavens I saw. And the Lord spoke with me and gave me commandment; wherefore, for this cause — to keep the commandment — I speak forth these words. And Enoch continued his speech, saying, The Lord who spoke with me, the same is the God of Heaven. And he is my God, and your God, and you are my brethren. And why do you counsel yourselves and deny the God of Heaven? The heavens has he made, the earth his footstool, and the foundation thereof is his. Behold, he laid it. And hosts of men has he brought in upon the face thereof, and death has come upon our fathers; nevertheless, we know them and cannot deny. And even the first of all we know, even Adam, for a book of remembrance we have written among us according to the pattern given by the finger of God, and it is given in our own language.

###### 6
And as Enoch spoke forth the words of God, the people trembled and could not stand in his presence.

###### 7
And he said unto them, Because Adam fell, we are. And by his fall came death, and we are made partakers of misery and woe. Behold, Satan has come among the children of men and tempts them to worship him. And men have become carnal, sensual, and devilish, and are shut out from the presence of God. But God has made known unto my fathers that all men must repent. And he called upon our father Adam by his own voice, saying, I am God; I made the world and men before they were in the flesh. And he also said unto him, If you will turn unto me, and listen unto my voice, and believe, and repent of all your transgressions, and be baptized, even in water, in the name of my Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth, who is Jesus Christ — the only name which shall be given under Heaven whereby salvation shall come unto the children of men — you shall receive the gift of the holy ghost, asking all things in his name. And whatever you shall ask, it shall be given you.

###### 8
And our father Adam spoke unto the Lord and said, Why is it that men must repent and be baptized in water? And the Lord said unto Adam, Behold, I have forgiven you your transgression in the Garden of Eden. From this came the saying abroad among the people that the Son of God has atoned for original guilt, wherein the sins of the parents cannot be answered upon the heads of the children, for they are whole from the foundation of the world. And the Lord spoke unto Adam, saying, Inasmuch as your children are conceived in sin, even so, when they begin to grow up, sin conceives in their hearts. And they taste the bitter that they may know to prize the good, and it is given unto them to know good from evil; wherefore, they are agents unto themselves.

###### 9
And I have given unto you another law and commandment, wherefore teach it unto your children: that all men everywhere must repent or they can by no means inherit the kingdom of God; for no unclean thing can dwell there or dwell in his presence, for in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name. And the name of his Only Begotten is the Son Ahman, a righteous judge who shall come in the meridian of time. Therefore, I give unto you a commandment to teach these things freely unto your children, saying that by reason of transgression comes the Fall, which fall brings death. And inasmuch as you were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit whom I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so, you must be born again into the kingdom of Heaven of water, and of the spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of my Only Begotten, that you may be sanctified from all sin and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory. For by the water you keep the commandment, by the spirit you are justified, and by the blood you are sanctified. Therefore, it is given to abide in you: the Record of Heaven, the Comforter, the keys of the kingdom of Heaven, the truth of all things, that which quickens all things — which makes alive all things, that which knows all things, and has all power according to Wisdom, mercy, truth, justice, and judgment. And now behold, I say unto you, this is the plan of salvation unto all men through the blood of my Only Begotten who shall come in the meridian of time. And behold, all things have their likeness, and all things are created and made to bear record of me — both things which are temporal and things which are spiritual, things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the earth, and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the earth. Both above and beneath, all things bear record of me.

###### 10
And it came to pass when the Lord had spoken with Adam our father that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. And thus he was baptized, and the spirit of God descended upon him. And thus he was born of the spirit and became quickened in the inner man. And he heard a voice out of Heaven saying, You are baptized with fire and with the holy ghost. This is the record of the Father and the Son, from henceforth and for ever. And you are after the Order of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity. Behold, you are one in me, a son of God. And thus may all become my sons. Amen.


*Enoch’s prophecy, etc.*

###### 11
And it came to pass that Enoch continued his speech, saying, Behold, our father Adam taught these things, and many have believed and become the sons of God. And many have believed not, and have perished in their sins, and are looking forth with fear in torment for the fiery indignation of the wrath of God to be poured out upon them.

###### 12
And from that time forth, Enoch began to prophesy, saying unto the people that, As I was journeying, and stood in the place Mahujah, and cried unto the Lord, there came a voice out of Heaven saying, Turn and get yourself upon the mount Simeon. And it came to pass that I turned and went upon the mount. And as I stood upon the mount, I beheld the Heavens open. And I was clothed upon with glory, and I saw the Lord. He stood before my face and he talked with me, even as a man talks one with another, face to face. And he says unto me, Look, and I will show unto you the world for the space of many generations. And it came to pass that I beheld in the valley of Shum, and lo — a great people who dwelled in tents, who were the people of Shum. And again the Lord said unto me, Look. And I looked toward the north and I beheld the people of Canaan who dwelled in tents. And the Lord said unto me, Prophesy. And I prophesied, saying, Behold, the people of Canaan, who are numerous, shall go forth in battle array against the people of Shum and shall slay them, that they shall utterly be destroyed. And the people of Canaan shall divide themselves in the land, and the land shall be barren and unfruitful, and no other people shall dwell there but the people of Canaan. For behold, the Lord shall curse the land with much heat, and the barrenness thereof shall go forth for ever. And there was a blackness come upon all the children of Canaan, that they were despised among all people. And it came to pass the Lord said unto me, Look. And I looked and I beheld the land of Sharon, and the land of Enoch, and the land of Omner, and the land of Heni, and the land of Shem, and the land of Haner, and the land of Hananniah, and all the inhabitants thereof. And the Lord said unto me, Go forth to this people and say unto them, Repent, lest I come out and smite them with a curse and they die. And he gave unto me a commandment that I should baptize in the name of the Father, and of the Son, who is full of grace and truth, and the holy ghost, which bears record of the Father and the Son.

###### 13
And it came to pass that Enoch continued to call upon all the people, save it were the people of Canaan, to repent. And so great was the faith of Enoch that he led the people of God, and their enemies came to battle against them, and he spoke the word of the Lord, and the earth trembled, and the mountains fled — even according to his command — and the rivers of water were turned out of their course, and the roar of the lions was heard out of the wilderness. And all nations feared greatly, so powerful was the word of Enoch, and so great was the power of the language which God had given him. There also came up a land out of the depths of the sea, and so great was the fear of the enemies of the people of God that they fled, and stood afar off, and went upon the land which came up out of the depths of the sea. And the giants of the land also stood afar off. And there went forth a curse upon all the people who fought against God.

###### 14
And from that time forth there were wars and bloodsheds among them, but the Lord came and dwelled with his people and they dwelled in righteousness. The fear of the Lord was upon all nations, so great was the glory of the Lord which was upon his people. And the Lord blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains and upon the high places, and did flourish. And the Lord called his people Zion because they were of one heart, and of one mind, and dwelled in righteousness, and there was no poor among them. And Enoch continued his preaching in righteousness unto the people of God. And it came to pass in his days that he built a city that was called the city of holiness, even Zion.

###### 15
And it came to pass that Enoch talked with the Lord. And he said unto the Lord, Surely Zion shall dwell in safety for ever. And the Lord said unto Enoch, Zion have I blessed, but the residue of the people have I cursed. And it came to pass that the Lord showed unto Enoch all the inhabitants of the earth. And he beheld, and lo, Zion in process of time was taken up into Heaven. And the Lord said unto Enoch, Behold my abode for ever. And Enoch also beheld the residue of the people who were the sons of Adam. And they were a mixture of all the seed of Adam save it were the seed of Cain, for the seed of Cain were black and had not place among them. And after Zion was taken up into Heaven, Enoch beheld, and lo, all the nations of the earth were before him, and there came generation upon generation. And Enoch was high and lifted up, even in the bosom of the Father and the Son of Man. And behold, the powers of Satan were upon all the face of the earth. And he saw angels descending out of Heaven, and he heard a loud voice saying, Woe, woe unto the inhabitants of the earth. And he beheld Satan, and he had a great chain in his hand, and he veiled the whole face of the earth with darkness; and he looked up and laughed, and his angels rejoiced. And Enoch beheld angels descending out of Heaven bearing testimony of the Father and Son. And the holy ghost fell on many, and they were caught up by the Powers of Heaven into Zion.

###### 16
And it came to pass that Enoch looked upon the residue of the people and he wept. And he beheld, and lo, the Heavens wept also, and shed forth their tears as the rain upon the mountains. And Enoch said unto the Heavens, How is it that you can weep, seeing you are holy and from all eternity to all eternity? And were it possible that man could number the particles of the earth, yea, and millions of earths like this, it would not be a beginning to the number of your creations. And your curtains are stretched out still, and you are there and your presence is there. And also you are just, you are merciful and kind for ever. You have taken Zion to your own bosom from all your creations. From all eternity to all eternity, naught but peace, justice, and truth is the habitation of your throne, and mercy shall go before your face and have no end. How is it that you can weep?

###### 17
The Lord said unto Enoch, Behold these, your brethren, they are the workmanship of my own hands; and I gave unto them their intelligence, and in the Garden of Eden man had agency. And unto your brethren have I said, and also gave commandment, that they should love one another, and that they should serve me, their God. But behold, they are without affection and they hate their own blood. And the fire of my indignation is kindled against them, and in my hot displeasure will I send in the floods upon them, for my fierce anger is kindled against them. Behold, I am God, Man of Holiness is my name, Man of Counsel is my name, and Endless and Eternal is my name also. Wherefore, I can stretch forth my hands and hold all the creations which I have made, and my eye can pierce them also. And among all the workmanship of my hands, there has not been so great wickedness as among your brethren. But behold, their sins shall be upon the heads of their fathers. Satan shall be their master, and misery shall be their doom, and the whole Heavens shall weep over them, even all the workmanship of my hands. Why should not the Heavens weep, seeing these shall suffer? But behold, these whom your eyes are upon shall perish in the floods, and behold, I will shut them up. A prison have I prepared for them. And he whom I have chosen has pled before my face; wherefore, he suffers for their sins, inasmuch as they will repent, in the day that my Chosen shall return unto me; and until that day, they shall be in torment. Wherefore, for this shall the Heavens weep, yea, and all the workmanship of my hands.

###### 18
And it came to pass that the Lord spoke unto Enoch and told Enoch all the doings of the children of men. Wherefore, Enoch knew and looked upon their wickedness and their misery, and wept, and stretched forth his arms. And he beheld eternity, and his bowels yearned, and all eternity shook. And Enoch saw Noah also, and his family, that the posterity of all the sons of Noah should be saved with a temporal salvation. Wherefore, Enoch saw that Noah built an ark, and the Lord smiled upon it and held it in his own hand; but upon the residue of the wicked came the floods and swallowed them up.

###### 19
And as Enoch saw thus, he had bitterness of soul, and wept over his brethren, and said unto the Heavens, I will refuse to be comforted. But the Lord said unto Enoch, Lift up your heart, and be glad, and look. And it came to pass that Enoch looked; and from Noah, he beheld all the families of the earth. And he cried unto the Lord, saying, When shall the day of the Lord come? When shall the blood of The Righteous be shed, that all they that mourn may be sanctified and have eternal life? And the Lord said, It shall be in the meridian of time, in the days of wickedness and vengeance. And behold, Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, even in the flesh, and his soul rejoiced, saying, The Righteous is lifted up and the Lamb is slain from the foundation of the world. And through faith I am in the bosom of the Father, and behold, Zion is with me.

###### 20
And it came to pass that Enoch looked upon the earth and he heard a voice from the bowels thereof, saying, Woe, woe is me, the mother of men. I am pained; I am weary because of the wickedness of my children. When shall I rest and be cleansed from the filthiness which has gone forth out of me? When will my Creator sanctify me, that I may rest, and righteousness for a season abide upon my face? And when Enoch heard the earth mourn, he wept, and cried unto the Lord, saying, O Lord will you not have compassion upon the earth? Will you not bless the children of Noah? And it came to pass that Enoch continued his cry unto the Lord, saying, I ask you, O Lord, in the name of your Only Begotten, that you will have mercy upon Noah and his seed, that the earth might never more be covered by the floods. And the Lord could not withhold, and he covenanted with Enoch and swore unto him with an oath that he would stay the floods that he would call upon the children of Noah. And he sent forth an unalterable decree that from a remnant of his seed should come all nations while the earth should stand. And the Lord said, Blessed is he through whose seed Messiah shall come, for he says, I am Messiah, the King of Zion, the Rock of Heaven, which is broad as eternity; and whoever comes in at the gate and climbs up by me shall never fall. Wherefore, blessed are they of whom I have spoken, for they shall come forth with songs of everlasting joy.

###### 21
And it came to pass that Enoch cried unto the Lord, saying, When the Son of Man comes in the flesh, shall the earth rest? I ask of you, show me these things. And the Lord said unto Enoch, Look. And he looked, and beheld the Son of Man lifted upon the cross after the manner of men. And he heard a loud voice, and the heavens were veiled. And all the creation of God mourned, and the earth groaned, and the rocks were rent. And the saints arose and were crowned at the right hand of the Son of Man with crowns of glory. And as many of the spirits as were in prison came forth and stood on the right hand of God. And the remainder were reserved in chains of darkness until the judgment of the great day.

###### 22
And Enoch wept and cried unto the Lord again, saying, When shall the earth rest? And Enoch beheld the Son of Man ascend up unto the Father, and he called unto the Lord, saying, Will you not come again upon the earth? For inasmuch as you are God, and I know you, and you have sworn unto me and commanded me that I should ask in the name of your Only Begotten, you have made me, and given unto me a right to your throne, and not of myself, but through your own grace. Wherefore, I ask you if you will not come again on the earth. And the Lord said unto Enoch, As I live, even so will I come in the last days, in the days of wickedness and vengeance, to fulfill the oath which I have made unto you concerning the children of Noah. And the day shall come that the earth shall rest. But before that day, the heavens shall be darkened, and a veil of darkness shall cover the earth; and the heavens shall shake, and also the earth. And great tribulations shall be among the children of men, but my people will I preserve. And righteousness will I send down out of Heaven. Truth will I send forth out of the earth to bear testimony of my Only Begotten, his resurrection from the dead, yea, and also the resurrection of all men. And righteousness and truth will I cause to sweep the earth as with a flood, to gather out my own elect from the four quarters of the earth unto a place which I shall prepare, a holy city, that my people may gird up their loins and be looking forth for the time of my coming. For there shall be my tabernacle, and it shall be called Zion, a New Jerusalem. And the Lord said unto Enoch, Then shall you and all your city meet them there, and we will receive them into our bosom. And they shall see us, and we will fall upon their necks, and they shall fall upon our necks, and we will kiss each other; and there shall be my abode. And it shall be Zion which shall come forth out of all the creations which I have made, and for the space of a thousand years shall the earth rest.

###### 23
And it came to pass that Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man in the last days to dwell on the earth in righteousness for the space of a thousand years. But before that day, he saw great tribulation among the wicked. And he also saw the sea, that it was troubled, and men’s hearts failing them, looking forth with fear for the judgments of the Almighty God which should come upon the wicked. And the Lord showed Enoch all things, even unto the end of the world. And he saw the day of the righteous, the hour of their redemption, and received a fullness of joy. And all the days of Zion, in the days of Enoch, were three hundred sixty-five years. And Enoch and all his people walked with God and he dwelled in the midst of Zion. And it came to pass that Zion was not, for God received it up into his own bosom. And from there went forth the saying, Zion is fled.