[[Section 145 - Abraham 4.md|<< Section 145 - Abraham 4]]  |  [[Section 145 - Abraham 6.md|Section 145 - Abraham 6 >>]]

### Chapter 5
###### 1
And I, Abraham, had the Urim and Thummim which the Lord, my God, had given unto me in Ur of the Chaldees. And I saw the stars also, that they were very great, and that one of them was nearest unto the throne of God. And there were many great ones which were near unto it. And the Lord said unto me, These are the governing ones, and the name of the great one is Kolob because it is near unto me, for I am the Lord, your God; I have set this one to govern all those which belong to the same order of that upon which you stand. And the Lord said unto me by the Urim and Thummim that Kolob was after the manner of the Lord, according to its times and seasons in the revolutions thereof; that one revolution was a day unto the Lord after his manner of reckoning, it being one thousand years according to the time appointed unto that whereon you stand. This is the reckoning of the Lord’s time according to the reckoning of Kolob.

###### 2
And the Lord said unto me, The planet which is the lesser light, lesser than that which is to rule the day, even the night, is above or greater than that upon which you stand, in point of reckoning, for it moves in order more slow. This is in order because it stands above the earth upon which you stand; therefore, the reckoning of its time is not so many as to its number of days, and of months, and of years. And the Lord said unto me, Now, Abraham, these two facts exist; behold, your eyes see it. It is given unto you to know the times of reckoning and the set times. Yea, the set time of the earth upon which you stand, and the set time of the greater light which is set to rule the day, and the set time of the lesser light which is set to rule the night. Now the set time of the lesser light is a longer time as to its reckoning than the reckoning of the time of the earth upon which you stand. And where these two facts exist, there shall be another fact above them. That is, there shall be another planet whose reckoning of time shall be longer still. And thus there shall be the reckoning of the time of one planet above another until you come nigh unto Kolob, which Kolob is after the reckoning of the Lord’s time, which Kolob is set nigh unto the throne of God to govern all those planets which belong to the same order of that upon which you stand. And it is given unto you to know the set time of all the stars that are set to give light until you come near unto the throne of God.

###### 3
Thus I, Abraham, talked with the Lord face to face, as one man talks with another, and he told me of the works which his hands had made. And he said unto me, My son, my son (and his hand was stretched out), behold, I will show you all these. And he put his hand upon my eyes, and I saw those things which his hands had made, which were many, and they multiplied before my eyes and I could not see the end thereof. And he said unto me, This is Shinehah, which is the sun. And he said unto me, Kokob, which is star. And he said unto me, Olea, which is the moon. And he said unto me, Kokaubeam, which signifies stars, or all the great lights which were in the firmament of heaven.

###### 4
And it was in the night time when the Lord spoke these words unto me: I will multiply you, and your seed after you, like unto these; and if you can count the number of sands, so shall be the number of your seeds. And the Lord said unto me, Abraham, I show these things unto you, before you go into Egypt, that you may declare all these words. If two things exist, and there be one above the other, there shall be greater things above them. Therefore, Kolob is the greatest of all the kokaubeam that you have seen because it is nearest unto me. Now if there be two things, one above the other, and the moon be above the earth, then it may be that a planet or a star may exist above it. (And there is nothing that the Lord, your God, shall take in his heart to do but what he will do it.) Nevertheless, he made the greater star as, also, if there be two spirits and one shall be more intelligent than the other, yet these two spirits — notwithstanding one is more intelligent than the other — yet they have no beginning (they existed before), they shall have no end (they shall exist after), for they are gnolaum, or eternal. And the Lord said unto me, These two facts do exist — that there are two spirits, one being more intelligent than the other; there shall be another more intelligent than they. I am the Lord, your God; I am more intelligent than they all. The Lord, your God, sent his angel to deliver you from the hands of the priest of Elkkener. I dwell in the midst of them all. I now therefore have come down unto you to deliver unto you the works which my hands have made, wherein my wisdom excels them all; for I rule in the heavens above and in the earth beneath, in all wisdom and prudence, over all the intelligences your eyes have seen from the beginning. I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences you have seen.