[<< Matthew 3](Matthew%203.md)  |  [Matthew 5 >>](Matthew%205.md)

### Chapter 4
###### 1
And when Jesus had come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. And behold, there came a leper worshipping him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And Jesus put forth his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing. Be clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus said unto him, See you tell no man, but go your way and show yourself to the priests, and offer the gift that Moses commanded for a testimony unto them.

###### 2
And when Jesus had entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, imploring him and saying, Lord, my servant lies at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented. And Jesus said unto him, I will come and heal him. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof; but speak the word only and my servant shall be healed. For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this man, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does it. And when they that followed him heard this, they marveled. And when Jesus heard this, he said unto them that followed, Truly I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. And I say unto you that many shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of Heaven. But the children of the wicked one shall be cast out into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go your way, and as you have believed, be it done unto you. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour.

###### 3
And when Jesus had come into Peter’s house, he saw his wife’s mother laid and sick of a fever. And he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose and ministered unto them. Now when the evening came, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils, and he cast out the evil spirits with the word, and healed all that were sick, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses.

###### 4
Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandment to depart unto the other side of the sea. And a certain scribe came unto him and said, Master, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. And another of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. But Jesus said unto him, Follow me and let the dead bury their dead.

###### 5
And when he had entered into a ship, his disciples came unto him. And behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves, but he was asleep. And his disciples came unto him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us, else we perish. And he said unto them, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?

###### 6
And when he had come to the other side, into the country of the Gergesenes, there met him a man possessed with devils, coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that no man could pass that way. And behold, he cried out, saying, What have we to do with you, Jesus, you Son of God! Have you come here to torment us before the time? And there was, a good way off from them, a herd of many swine feeding. So the devils implored him, saying, If you cast us out, suffer us to go away into the herd of swine. And he said unto them, Go. And when they had come out, they went into the herd of swine, and behold, the whole herd of swine ran violently down a steep place into the sea and perished in the waters. And they that kept them fled and went their way into the city, and told everything which took place, and what had befallen to the possessed of the devils. And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw him, they implored him that he would depart out of their region.

###### 7
And Jesus entered into a ship and passed over and came into his own city. And behold, they brought to him a man, sick of the palsy, lying on a bed. And Jesus, knowing their faith, said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, be of good cheer; your sins are forgiven you. Go your way and sin no more. And behold, certain of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemes. And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why is it that you think evil in your hearts? For is it not easier to say, Your sins are forgiven you, than to say, Arise and walk? But I said this, that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins. Then Jesus said unto the sick of the palsy, Arise, take up your bed, and go unto your house. And he immediately arose and departed to his house. But when the multitude saw it, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such power unto men.

###### 8
And as Jesus passed forth from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the place where they received tribute, as was customary in those days, and he said unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. And it came to pass as Jesus sat at a meal in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and with his disciples. And when the Pharisees saw them, they said unto his disciples, Why does your master eat with publicans and sinners? But when Jesus heard them, he said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. But go and learn what this means: I desire mercy, and not sacrifice. For I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.

###### 9
And while he was thus teaching, there came to him the disciples of John, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast oft, but your disciples fast not? And Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridechamber mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast.

###### 10
Then said the Pharisees unto him, Why will you not receive us with our baptism, seeing we keep the whole law? But Jesus said unto them, You keep not the law. If you had kept the law, you would have received me, for I am he that gave the law. I receive not you with your baptism because it profits you nothing, for when that which is new has come, the old is about to be put away; for no man puts a piece of new cloth on an old garment, for that which is put in to fill it up takes from the garment, and the rent is made worse. Neither do men put new wine into old bottles, else the bottles break, and the wine runs out, and the bottles perish. But they put new wine into new bottles and both are preserved.

###### 11
While he spoke these things unto them, behold, there came a certain ruler and worshipped him, saying, My daughter is even now dying, but come and lay your hand upon her and she shall live. And Jesus arose and followed him, and also his disciples, and many people crowded him. And behold, a woman who was diseased with a discharge of blood twelve years came behind him and touched the hem of his garment; for she said within herself, If I may but touch his garment, I shall be whole. But Jesus turned himself about, and when he saw her, he said, Daughter, be of good comfort; your faith has made you whole. And the woman was made whole from that hour.

###### 12
And when Jesus came into the ruler’s house and saw the minstrels and the people making a noise, he said unto them, Give place, for the maid is not dead, but sleeps. And they laughed him to scorn. But when the people were put forth, he went in and took her by the hand, and the maid arose. And the fame of Jesus went abroad into all that land.

###### 13
And when Jesus departed from there, two blind men followed him, crying and saying, Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on us. And when he had come into the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said unto them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They said unto him, Yea, Lord. Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith, be it unto you. And their eyes were opened. And sternly he charged them, saying, Keep my commandments and see you tell no man in this place, that no man know it. But they, when they had departed, spread abroad his fame in all that country.

###### 14
And as they went out, behold, they brought to him a dumb man possessed with a devil. And when the devil was cast out, the dumb man spoke. And the multitude marveled, saying, It was never so seen in Israel. But the Pharisees said, He casts out the devils through the prince of the devils. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. But when he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion on them because they were weary and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.

###### 15
Then he said unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Ask therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. And when he had called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease.