|  [[Canonization.md|Canonization >>]]

### FOREWORD
JOSEPH SMITH warned in 1831 that “except the church receive the fullness of the Scriptures that they would yet fall.” The “fullness” was defined as the Book of Mormon, the revelations, and the new, inspired Bible revisions (see Teachings and Commandments 105:13 – 14). Less than one year later, in September 1832, the saints of God were condemned by the Lord and commanded to *repent and remember the new covenant, even the Book of Mormon and the former commandments which I have given them, not only to say, but to do according to that which I have written* (T&C 82:20). This is often interpreted as the Lord rebuking the saints for failing to *do *according to that which He had written, while the assumption is made that the saints had been correctly *saying *what He had written. But the saints did not *say;* they failed to accurately preserve the revelations that God provided to them, and their texts became corrupted.

This volume of scripture is one of three that together constitute a unified effort to recover what the scriptures originally said and to prune away the uninspired alterations of man. This endeavor began with individuals who were separately directed by God to begin this work and were then inspired to find one another. Eventually two groups were formed, each unknown to the other. As they faced the completion of their respective projects in mid-December of 2016, they became aware of one another, and on December 31, 2016, Denver Snuffer Jr. facilitated a meeting between the two groups, in which they determined to unify their efforts. Each group brought different components to the endeavor that provided for a greater outcome than either project had possessed alone. Moving forward, the united team worked closely with one another, with the Lord, and with the Lord’s servant, and produced a record that is more accurate and more true to the Lord’s intent and to the Restoration.

This edition of scripture stands as a witness to the whole world; it is the sign that the moment has arrived when the things that have been prophesied of in scripture will now occur in a single generation. Mankind doesn’t have to accept the witness, they don’t even have to notice the witness; it’s only required that God send the witness. If He sends the witness, God has done His part. These scriptures are a new witness of Him and a sign of His invitation to renew communication with mankind.

This volume of scripture includes the revelations given to Joseph Smith, Jr., as well as revelations that have come forth in our day. A compilation of Joseph’s revelations were first published in 1833 and titled “Book of Commandments.” An expanded volume, titled “Doctrine and Covenants” (D&C), was published in 1835 — the name-change referred to the division of contents: the “doctrine” was the Lectures on Faith, and the “covenants” were the revelations and instruction that followed. Subsequent editions of the D&C removed the “doctrine” — the Lectures on Faith. This Restoration Edition of Joseph’s revelations has restored the “doctrine” and has been renamed the “Teachings and Commandments” (T&C). This name was chosen to provide a distinction between this book and the D&C (and those groups and churches that accept the D&C as scripture). It is also a reflection of the nature of the contents — *Teachings*, which instruct and invite, and *Commandments*, which are required of mankind and are necessary for salvation. This volume of scripture is considered to be a living, expanding canon. People who are in a living covenant with God always have an open canon and expect additional revelation and scripture.

The hand of the Lord has been present in the process of preparing these scriptures. May His Spirit guide you and testify to you as you receive them.