[<< Doctrine of the Two Ways](Doctrine%20of%20the%20Two%20Ways)  |  [Dominions >>](Dominions)

### Dominion
The word “dominion” in the understanding of the gentile can convey the impression of a prison warden exercising control over captives. “Dominion” should be understood, instead, to convey the idea of a gardener who is responsible for making the garden thrive, grow, and bear fruit. To be clear, the three greatest examples of wielding “dominion” in the correct manner as mankind should understand it are, first: Christ, who is probably without any peer, unquestionably the greatest example of one holding the greatest dominion, and who also, likewise, showed the greatest example of how to wield dominion. He beseeched people to believe. He pled with them for their own good. He knelt to serve them. He denied that He had a kingdom of this world (*see* John 10:7). He tried to prepare people for a better one. But He was more intelligent than they all, and He was the greatest of them all (*see* Abraham 5:4). Unquestionably, He held the greatest dominion, and He wore it as a light thing. His yoke was easy (*see* Matthew 6:8). In this world, Adam, after Christ, held the greatest dominion (*see* Genesis 2:8). Adam taught and pled and instructed (*see* Genesis 3:4), but he did not abridge the agency of his children, even when one of his sons killed another of his sons. Adam did not execute Cain. Cain was sent away. Adam held dominion, but he exercised it like our Lord, pleading for the best interest of others. Adam invited and solicited all to obey God, hoping for their best interests. The third great example of holding dominion in a godly way was Moses. He is called in scripture, *meek above all men which were upon the face of the earth* (Numbers 7:22), and yet gentiles depict him as a bully and a strongman. Moses saw no reason to be jealous when others were out prophesying: *Would that all the Lord’s people were prophets, and that the Lord would put his spirit upon them* (Numbers 7:19). Moses, like Adam and Christ, is an example of how the word “dominion” should be understood. All three were gardeners, responsible for trying to make their garden thrive, grow, and bear fruit. In reality, those who have held the greatest dominion given by God have invariably lived lives of meekness and service. They were the opposite of what gentiles regard as a strongman. They were the opposite of a dictator or boss. They were more like loving grandfathers, gentle gardeners, and encouraging friends — trying to get the best from those who would allow them to teach.1



1 “Things to Keep Us Awake,” expanded paper of address given in St. George, UT, March 19, 2017, 19.