[<< Second Comforter](Second%20Comforter)  |  [Seed of Christ >>](Seed%20of%20Christ)

### Seed of Abraham
Those who hearken to the same God that Abraham hearkened to. The seed of Abraham have an obligation and a ministry to bear testimony that the God of Abraham lives and that He is *the* God over the whole earth; they also testify that His work began with Adam and won’t wrap up until the second coming of Christ in judgment on the world — to save and redeem those that look for Him. The Lord explains what Abraham’s descendants are going to inherit: *And thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and priesthood unto all nations. And I will bless them through thy name; for as many as receive this gospel shall be called after thy name and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as unto their Father. And I will bless them that bless thee and curse them that curse thee. And in thee (that is, in thy Priesthood) and in thy seed, (that is, thy Priesthood) — for I give unto thee a promise that this right shall continue in thee and in thy seed after thee* (Abraham 3:1). The record of Abraham was given in order to understand the covenant that God made with Abraham and to vindicate the promise that’s made in the Book of Mormon. If the Book of Mormon was translated by the gift and power of God, the Book of Abraham was translated no differently, only by the gift and power of God. It includes information that’s vital for men and women to understand so they can inherit the same gospel that was given to Abraham. In so doing, they can lay hold upon the same blessings that were given to Abraham and realize that the covenants that were made with the Fathers can be understood, activated, and realized — and they can obtain those same blessings here in the last days. Joseph’s work had to necessarily include recovery of the covenants with Abraham. One may regard himself as a gentile, but the covenant that was made with Abraham makes one a descendant of Abraham if he hearkens to that same God and receives that same gospel. If gentiles are willing to receive what God has offered, then they’re numbered among the house of Israel (*see* 1 Nephi 3:25; 3 Nephi 9:11). The Book of Mormon reveals that God made a covenant with Abraham in the beginning and at the end; God intends to vindicate the covenant that was made with Abraham by changing gentiles into the house of Israel — by covenant. Abraham looked forward to having seed that would be countless, despite only having one son. “The time will come when everyone who receives this gospel — that is, the gospel that Abraham had in his possession, a gospel that is unfolding in front of your eyes today — that [gospel] will continue to unfold until all of its covenants, rights, obligations, privileges, [and] understandings will all roll out. The Restoration will be completed, but the promise was made to Abraham that whenever the gospel is on the earth, those who receive it will acknowledge Abraham as their covenant father, the father of the righteous.”1



1  “Book of Mormon as Covenant,” talk given at the Book of Mormon Covenant Conference in Columbia, SC, on Jan. 13, 2019.