[<< Testify](Testify)  |  [Testing the Spirits >>](Testing%20the%20Spirits)

### Testimony of Jesus
When Christ has promised one Eternal life, he can know with a surety he has Eternal life. Until then, all remain at risk and in jeopardy every hour they are here (*see* 1 Corinthians 1:64). When one knows he is sealed up to Eternal life, he has the more sure word of prophecy or the testimony of Jesus (*see WJS*, 201–202; *WWJ*, 2:230–231; T&C 86:1). These are they who have been told by the voice of God from heaven that they have Eternal life.1* The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy *(Revelation 7:10). To have a saving testimony of Him is to become a prophet. It is no wonder, then, that Moses wished all men were prophets (*see* Numbers 7:19). All are invited to get testimonies of Christ and are, therefore, also invited to become prophets.2

What if someone were to declare today *that the Lamb of God is the Son of the Eternal Father and the Savior of the world, and that all men must come unto him or they cannot be saved *(1 Nephi 3:24)? What if they were to declare in sober words that the Lamb of God lives still? That He had appeared to and spoken with the one making the declaration? Would there yet be those who would hear and repent? Would that message be drowned out by the chorus of foolish and vain things being spoken in the name of Jesus Christ by those who, despite having real intent and sincere desire, have not been given power to declare His words? Would such a message only be another bit of entertainment for the bored and curious to give but passing notice? Could the world be given such a message and warned but fail to see what it is they are being offered for one last time before the harvest is to begin? “If so, would we notice? Should someone choose to come, *they must come according to the words which shall be established by the mouth of the Lamb; and the words of the Lamb shall be made known in the records of thy seed, as well as in the records of the twelve apostles of the Lamb* (1 Nephi 3:24). How must they come? The Book of Mormon suggests it must be through the gate of revelation (Moroni 10:2). Without revelation you cannot obtain the testimony of Jesus, which is the spirit of prophecy (Revelation 7:10). Or, in other words, unless you find prophets who can bear testimony of Him, you have not yet found the means for salvation.”3 The whole text of the Book of Mormon comes down to experience after experience, being retold by people who, during their lifetime, had this opening up of the Heavens to them, and they came into contact with Jesus Christ and recognized who He is and what His role is. “The testimony of Jesus is not something that comes from *you* (i.e., ‘I have this [testimony,] and let me tell it to you’). The testimony of Jesus is something that He gives to you as His confirmation to you that you have part in His kingdom. To receive the testimony of Jesus is to receive from Him the promise that He will give you eternal life. The Book of Mormon is filled with accounts of people that had had that experience and that’s — at one point — an expected and normal part of the Christian experience. It became very rare, unexpected, and in fact is denounced by many denominations as something that doesn’t happen, can’t happen, ought not happen. And if you think that you’ve come into contact with a divine being, then you’ve been misled because, well, Jesus is busy. He can’t be troubled with your lot…don’t think that you’re going to have an encounter with Jesus. However, my view is that Christian salvation is based upon the testimony of Jesus, to you, of your salvation. I also think that it doesn’t matter when you live or what the circumstances were; if you were true and faithful to Him, you will have that experience…. I believe it to be an authentic part of every Christian’s life.”4*See also* PROPHET.



1 “2 Nephi 28:24–25,” Aug. 4, 2010, blog post.


2 Come, Let Us Adore Him, 2–3.


3 “1 Nephi 13:40–41,” July 3, 2010, blog post.


4 500th Year Reformation Talk Seven, “What is God up to today?” Boise, ID, Nov. 3, 2018, transcript of recording.