[[../Exodus/Exodus 20.md|<< Exodus 20]]  |  [[Leviticus 2.md|Leviticus 2 >>]]

### THE THIRD BOOK OF MOSES CALLED
# LEVITICUS
### Chapter 1
###### 1
And the Lord called unto Moses and spoke unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel and say unto them, If any man of you bring an offering unto the Lord, you shall bring your offering of the cattle, even of the herd and of the flock. If his offering is a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it of his own voluntary will, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord. And he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering, and it shall be accepted for him, to make atonement for him. And he shall kill the bullock before the Lord. And the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall bring the blood and sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And he shall flay the burnt offering and cut it into his pieces. And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar, and lay the wood in order upon the fire. And the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall lay the parts, the head, and the fat in order upon the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar. But his entrails and his legs shall he wash in water. And the priest shall burn all on the altar to be a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire of a sweet savor unto the Lord.

###### 2
And if his offering is of the flocks, namely, of the sheep or of the goats, for a burnt sacrifice, he shall bring it — a male without blemish — and he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before the Lord. And the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall sprinkle his blood round about upon the altar. And he shall cut it into his pieces, with his head and his fat. And the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar. But he shall wash the entrails and the legs with water. And the priest shall bring it all and burn it upon the altar. It is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire of a sweet savor unto the Lord.

###### 3
And if the burnt sacrifice for his offering to the Lord is of fowls, then he shall bring his offering of turtledoves or of young pigeons. And the priest shall bring it unto the altar, and wring off his head, and burn it on the altar. And the blood thereof shall be wrung out at the side of the altar. And he shall pluck away his crop with his feathers and cast it beside the altar, on the east part by the place of the ashes. And he shall cleave it with the wings thereof, but shall not divide it asunder. And the priest shall burn it upon the altar, upon the wood that is upon the fire. It is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire of a sweet savor unto the Lord.

###### 4
And when any will offer a grain offering unto the Lord, his offering shall be of fine flour, and he shall pour oil upon it and put frankincense thereon. And he shall bring it to Aaron’s sons, the priests, and he shall take out from there his handful of the flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof. And the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an offering made by fire of a sweet savor unto the Lord. And the remnant of the grain offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’. It is a thing most holy of the offerings of the Lord made by fire.

###### 5
And if you bring an offering of a grain offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil. And if your offering is a grain offering baked in a pan, it shall be of fine flour, unleavened, mingled with oil. You shall part it in pieces and pour oil thereon. It is a grain offering. And if your offering is a grain offering baked in the frying pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. And you shall bring the grain offering that is made of these things unto the Lord. And when it is presented unto the priest, he shall bring it unto the altar. And the priest shall take from the grain offering a memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar. It is an offering made by fire of a sweet savor unto the Lord. And that which is left of the grain offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’. It is a thing most holy of the offerings of the Lord made by fire.

###### 6
No grain offering which you shall bring unto the Lord shall be made with leaven, for you shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the Lord made by fire. As for the offering of the firstfruits, you shall offer them unto the Lord, but they shall not be burned on the altar for a sweet savor. And every offering of your grain offering shall you season with salt. Neither shall you suffer the salt of the covenant of your God to be lacking from your grain offering. With all your offerings, you shall offer salt.

###### 7
And if you offer a grain offering of your firstfruits unto the Lord, you shall offer for the grain offering of your firstfruits green ears of grain dried by the fire, even grain beaten out of fresh ears. And you shall put oil upon it and lay frankincense thereon. It is a grain offering. And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the beaten grain thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof. It is an offering made by fire unto the Lord.

###### 8
And if his offering is a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offer it of the herd, whether it be a male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the Lord. And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering and kill it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about. And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the Lord, the fat that covers the entrails, and all the fat that is upon the entrails, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the lobe above the liver, with the kidneys; it shall he take away. And Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the altar, upon the burnt sacrifice which is upon the wood that is on the fire. It is an offering made by fire of a sweet savor unto the Lord.

###### 9
And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering unto the Lord is of the flock, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish. If he offer a lamb for his offering, then shall he offer it before the Lord. And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation. And Aaron’s sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof round about upon the altar. And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the Lord: the fat thereof, and the whole rump (he shall take it off alongside the backbone), and the fat that covers the entrails, and all the fat that is upon the entrails, and the two kidneys and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the lobe above the liver, with the kidneys; it shall he take away. And the priest shall burn it upon the altar. It is the food of the offering made by fire unto the Lord.

###### 10
And if his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before the Lord. And he shall lay his hand upon the head of it and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation. And the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about. And he shall offer thereof his offering, even an offering made by fire unto the Lord: the fat that covers the entrails, and all the fat that is upon the entrails, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the lobe above the liver, with the kidneys; it shall he take away. And the priest shall burn them upon the altar. It is the food of the offering made by fire for a sweet savor. All the fat is the Lord’s. It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations, throughout all your dwellings, that you eat neither fat nor blood.

###### 11
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a soul shall sin through ignorance, against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which ought not to be done, and shall do against any of them, if the priest that is anointed do sin according to the sin of the people, then let him bring for his sin which he has sinned a young bullock without blemish unto the Lord for a sin offering. And he shall bring the bullock unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord, and shall lay his hand upon the bullock’s head and kill the bullock before the Lord. And the priest that is anointed shall take of the bullock’s blood and bring it to the tabernacle of the congregation. And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle of the blood seven times before the Lord, before the veil of the sanctuary. And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar of sweet incense before the Lord, which is in the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall pour all the blood of the bullock at the bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And he shall take off from it all the fat of the bullock for the sin offering: the fat that covers the entrails, and all the fat that is upon the entrails, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the lobe above the liver with the kidneys; it shall he take away, as it was taken off from the bullock of the sacrifice of peace offerings. And the priest shall burn them upon the altar of the burnt offering. And the skin of the bullock, and all his flesh, with his head and with his legs, and his entrails, and his dung — even the whole bullock shall he carry forth outside the camp, unto a clean place where the ashes are poured out, and burn him on the wood with fire. Where the ashes are poured out shall he be burned.

###### 12
And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance, and the thing is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done somewhat against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which should not be done, and are guilty, when the sin which they have sinned against it is known, then the congregation shall offer a young bullock for the sin and bring him before the tabernacle of the congregation. And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullock before the Lord, and the bullock shall be killed before the Lord. And the priest that is anointed shall bring of the bullock’s blood to the tabernacle of the congregation. And the priest shall dip his finger in some of the blood and sprinkle it seven times before the Lord, even before the veil. And he shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar which is before the Lord that is in the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall pour out all the blood at the bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And he shall take all his fat from him and burn it upon the altar. And he shall do with the bullock as he did with the bullock for a sin offering. So shall he do with this, and the priest shall make an atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them. And he shall carry forth the bullock outside the camp and burn him as he burned the first bullock. It is a sin offering for the congregation.

###### 13
When a ruler has sinned, and done somewhat through ignorance against any of the commandments of the Lord his God concerning things which should not be done, and is guilty, or if his sin wherein he has sinned come to his knowledge, he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a male without blemish, and he shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the Lord. It is a sin offering. And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out his blood at the bottom of the altar of burnt offering. And he shall burn all his fat upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings. And the priest shall make an atonement for him as concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him.

###### 14
And if anyone of the common people sin through ignorance, while he does somewhat against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which ought not to be done, and is guilty, or if his sin which he has sinned come to his knowledge, then he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has sinned; and he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering and slay the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering. And the priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar. And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat is taken away from off the sacrifice of peace offerings, and the priest shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor unto the Lord. And the priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven him.

###### 15
And if he bring a lamb for a sin offering, he shall bring a female without blemish. And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and slay it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering. And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar. And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of the peace offerings, and the priest shall burn them upon the altar according to the offerings made by fire unto the Lord. And the priest shall make an atonement for his sin that he has committed, and it shall be forgiven him.

###### 16
And if a soul sin, and hear the voice of swearing, and is a witness, whether he has seen or known of it, if he does not utter it, then he shall bear his iniquity. Or if a soul touch any unclean thing, whether it be a carcass of an unclean beast, or a carcass of unclean cattle, or the carcass of unclean creeping things, and if it is hidden from him, he also shall be unclean and guilty. Or if he touch the uncleanness of man, whatever uncleanness it is that a man shall be defiled with, and it is hidden from him, when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty. Or if a soul swear, pronouncing with his lips to do evil or to do good, whatever it is that a man shall pronounce with an oath, and it is hidden from him, when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty in one of these. And it shall be, when he shall be guilty in one of these things, that he shall confess that he has sinned in that thing. And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the Lord for his sin which he has sinned: a female from the flock, a lamb or a kid of the goats, for a sin offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his sin.

###### 17
And if he is not able to bring a lamb, then he shall bring for his trespass which he has committed two turtledoves or two young pigeons unto the Lord — one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering. And he shall bring them unto the priest, who shall offer that which is for the sin offering first, and wring off his head from his neck, but shall not divide it asunder. And he shall sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar, and the rest of the blood shall be wrung out at the bottom of the altar. It is a sin offering. And he shall offer the second for a burnt offering according to the manner. And the priest shall make an atonement for him, for his sin which he has sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.

###### 18
But if he is not able to bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons, then he that sinned shall bring for his offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering. He shall put no oil upon it, neither shall he put any frankincense thereon, for it is a sin offering. Then shall he bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take his handful of it, even a memorial thereof, and burn it on the altar according to the offerings made by fire unto the Lord. It is a sin offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for him as touching his sin that he has sinned in one of these, and it shall be forgiven him. And the remnant shall be the priest’s as a grain offering.

###### 19
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, If a soul commit a trespass, and sin through ignorance in the holy things of the Lord, then he shall bring for his trespass unto the Lord a ram without blemish out of the flocks, with your estimation by shekels of silver (after the shekel of the sanctuary), for a trespass offering. And he shall make amends for the harm that he has done in the holy thing, and shall add the fifth part unto it and give it unto the priest. And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven him.

###### 20
And if a soul sin and commit any of these things which are forbidden to be done by the commandments of the Lord, though he knew it not, yet is he guilty and shall bear his iniquity. And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, with your estimation for a trespass offering, unto the priest. And the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance wherein he erred and knew it not, and it shall be forgiven him. It is a trespass offering. He has certainly trespassed against the Lord.

###### 21
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, If a soul sin and commit a trespass against the Lord, and lie unto his neighbor in that which was delivered to him to keep, or in fellowship, or in a thing taken away by violence, or has deceived his neighbor, or has found that which was lost and lies concerning it, and swears falsely — in any of all these that a man does, sinning therein, then it shall be (because he has sinned and is guilty) that he shall restore that which he took violently away, or the thing which he has deceitfully gotten, or that which was delivered to him to keep, or the lost thing which he found, or all that about which he has sworn falsely. He shall even restore it in the principal, and shall add the fifth part more unto it, and give it unto him to whom it appertains in the day of his trespass offering. And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the Lord, a ram without blemish out of the flock, with your estimation for a trespass offering, unto the priest. And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the Lord, and it shall be forgiven him; for anything of all that he has done in trespassing therein.