[[Mark 5.md|<< Mark 5]]  |  [[Mark 7.md|Mark 7 >>]]

### Chapter 6
###### 1
And as Jesus went out of the temple, his disciples came to him to hear him, saying, Master, show us concerning the buildings of the temple. And he said unto them, Do you behold these stones of the temple? And all this great work, and buildings of the temple? Truly I say unto you, they shall be thrown down and left unto the Jews desolate. And Jesus said unto them, Do you not see all these things? And do you not understand them? Truly I say unto you, there shall not be left here upon this temple one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down.

###### 2
And Jesus left them and went upon the Mount of Olives. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be which you have said concerning the destruction of the temple and the Jews? And what is the sign of your coming? And of the end of the world, or the destruction of the wicked, which is the end of the world? And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many. Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and you shall be hated of all nations for my name’s sake. And then shall many be offended and shall betray one another. And many false prophets shall arise and shall deceive many. And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. But he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved. When you therefore shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, then you shall stand in the holy place. Whoever reads, let him understand.

###### 3
Then let them who are in Judea flee into the mountains. Let him who is on the housetop flee and not return to take anything out of his house. Neither let him who is in the field return back to take his clothes. And woe unto them that are with child and unto them who give suck in those days. Therefore, pray to the Lord that your flight should not be in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day. For then, in those days, shall be great tribulations on the Jews and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, such as was not before sent upon Israel by God since the beginning of their kingdom (for it is written: their enemies shall scatter them) until this time; no, nor ever shall be sent again upon Israel. All these things are the beginnings of sorrows. And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved. But for the elect’s sake, according to the covenants, those days shall be shortened. Behold, these things I have spoken unto you concerning the Jews.

###### 4
And then immediately after the tribulation of those days which shall come upon Jerusalem, if any man shall say unto you, Look, here is Christ, or there — believe him not. For in those days there shall also arise false christs and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if possible, they shall deceive the very elect, who are the elect according to the covenant. Behold, I speak these things unto you for the elect’s sake.

###### 5
And you also shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you be not troubled, for all I have told you must come to pass, but the end is not yet. Behold, I have told you before; wherefore, if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the desert — go not forth. Behold, he is in the secret chambers — believe it not; for as the light of the morning comes out of the east, and shines even unto the west, and covers the whole earth, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be.

###### 6
And now I show unto you a parable. Behold, wherever the body is, there will the eagles be gathered together. So likewise shall my elect be gathered from the four quarters of the earth. And they shall hear of wars and rumors of wars — behold, I speak unto you for my elect’s sake — for nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes in diverse places. And again, because iniquity shall abound, the love of men shall wax cold. But he who shall not be overcome, the same shall be saved. And again, this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come, or the destruction of the wicked.

###### 7
And again shall the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, be fulfilled. And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the Powers of Heaven shall be shaken. Truly I say unto you, this generation in which these things shall be shown forth shall not pass away until all I have told you shall be fulfilled. Although the days will come that heaven and earth shall pass away, yet my words shall not pass away, but all shall be fulfilled.

###### 8
And as I said before, after the tribulation of those days, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken, then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in Heaven. And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of Heaven, with power and great glory. And whoever treasures up my word shall not be deceived, for the Son of Man shall come, and he shall send his angels before him with the great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.

###### 9
Now learn a parable of the fig tree. When his branches are yet tender and puts forth leaves, you know that summer is near at hand. So likewise my elect, when they shall see all these things, they shall know that he is near, even at the doors. But of that day and hour no one knows — no, not the angels of God in Heaven, but my Father only.

###### 10
But as it was in the days of Noah, so it shall be also at the coming of the Son of Man; for it shall be with them as it was in the days which were before the flood. Until the day that Noah entered into the ark, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, and knew not until the flood came and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. Then shall be fulfilled that which is written: that in the last days, two shall be in the field, one shall be taken and the other left; two shall be grinding at the mill, the one taken and the other left.

###### 11
And what I say unto one, I say unto all men; watch, therefore, for you know not at what hour your Lord does come. But know this: if the master of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to have been broken up, but would have been ready. Therefore, you be also ready, for in such an hour as you think not, the Son of Man comes.

###### 12
Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord has made ruler over his household, to give them food in due season? Blessed is that servant whom his lord (when he comes) shall find so doing. And truly I say unto you, he shall make him ruler over all his goods. But if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord delays his coming, and shall begin to smite his fellow servants, and to eat and drink with the drunk, the lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looks not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of, and shall cut him asunder, and shall appoint him his portion with the hypocrites. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And thus comes the end.