[<< Possess Your Soul](Possess%20Your%20Soul.md)  |  [Power of Godliness >>](Power%20of%20Godliness.md)

### Power of God
“The Father’s power was not used only to create us, but continues to preserve us. We do not have a moment from our birth to our death in which we are not reliant upon God for the continuance of our existence. God *created [us] from the beginning* and is* preserving [us] from day to day* (Mosiah 1:8). Without Him, we would not be ‘preserved,’ or in other words, we would not stay created or organized. We would dissolve into the original, pre-creation, primordial constituent parts. We would be ‘uncreated’ if we lost His ‘preserving’ power. The full extent of our dependence upon the Father becomes clear when we are told He is *lending [us] breath.* This preserving power is also described in T&C 86:1: *And the light which now shines, which gives you light, is through him who enlightens your eyes, which is the same light that quickens your understandings, which light proceeds forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space: the light which is in all things, which gives life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sits upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things.* The full extent of God’s involvement in our daily existence cannot be overstated; it is not limited to an original launch, or ‘big bang.’ He did not just wind up a watch and let it run on its own. He is the power behind *all things* and *gives life to all things* through His ‘power.’ This description puts God at the center. However far the concentric circles may proceed from Him in all directions, He remains in the center ‘throne’ from which His power continues to provide the *light* which sustains it all. This involvement is immediate, continuing and intimate.”1*See also* HOLY SPIRIT.



1 Eighteen Verses, 157–158.