[[Exodus 6.md|<< Exodus 6]]  |  [[Exodus 8.md|Exodus 8 >>]]

### Chapter 7
###### 1
And the Lord said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, for he has hardened his heart and the hearts of his servants; therefore, I will show these my signs before him, and that you may tell in the ears of your son and of your son’s son what things I have wrought in Egypt, and my signs which I have done among them, that you may know that I am the Lord. And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him, Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews: How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people go, that they may serve me. Else, if you refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring the locusts into your borders. And they shall cover the face of the earth, that one cannot be able to see the earth. And they shall eat the residue of that which is escaped, which remains unto you from the hail, and shall eat every tree which grows for you out of the field. And they shall fill your houses, and the houses of all your servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians, which neither your fathers nor your fathers’ fathers have seen since the day that they were upon the earth unto this day. And he turned himself and went out from Pharaoh.

###### 2
And Pharaoh’s servants said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare unto us? Let the men go, that they may serve the Lord their God. Do you not know yet that Egypt is destroyed? And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh, and he said unto them, Go serve the Lord your God, but who are they that shall go? And Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go, for we must hold a feast unto the Lord. And he said unto them, Let the Lord be with you, I will let you go. And your little ones? Look, for evil is before you. Not so. Go now, you that are men, and serve the Lord, for that you did desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh’s presence.

###### 3
And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up upon the land of Egypt and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail has left. And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the Lord brought an east wind upon the land all that day and all that night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts. And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt and rested in all the borders of Egypt, very grievous. Before them, there were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such; for they covered the face of the whole earth so that the land was darkened, and they did eat every herb of the land and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left. And there remained not any green thing in the trees or in the herbs of the field through all the land of Egypt. Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste, and he said, I have sinned against the Lord your God and against you. Now therefore forgive, I urge you, my sin only this once, and entreat the Lord your God that he may take away from me this death only. And he went out from Pharaoh and entreated the Lord. And the Lord turned a mighty strong west wind, which took away the locusts and cast them into the Red Sea; there remained not one locust in all the borders of Egypt. But Pharaoh hardened his heart so that he would not let the children of Israel go.

###### 4
And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt. And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days. They saw not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days; but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings. And Pharaoh called unto Moses and said, Go, serve the Lord, only let your flocks and your herds stay; let your little ones also go with you. And Moses said, You must give us also sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice unto the Lord our God. Our cattle also shall go with us; there shall not a hoof be left behind, for thereof must we take to serve the Lord our God, and we know not with what we must serve the Lord until we come there. But Pharaoh hardened his heart and he would not let them go. And Pharaoh said unto him, Depart from me. Take heed to yourself; see my face no more, for in that day you see my face, you shall die. And Moses said, You have spoken well. I will see your face again no more.