[<< Psalms 36](Psalms%2036)  |  [Psalms 38 >>](Psalms%2038)

### Psalm 37

*A psalm of David.*

###### 1
Fret not yourself because of evildoers, neither be envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good; so shall you dwell in the land, and truly you shall be fed. Delight yourself also in the Lord and he shall give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way unto the Lord. Trust also in him and he shall bring it to pass. And he shall bring forth your righteousness as the light and your judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not yourself because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who brings wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Fret not yourself in any way to do evil. For evildoers shall be cut off, but those that wait upon the Lord — they shall inherit the earth; for yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be. Yea, you shall diligently consider his place, and it shall not be. But the meek shall inherit the earth and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. The wicked plots against the just and gnashes upon him with his teeth. The Lord shall laugh at him, for he sees that his day is coming. The wicked have drawn out the sword and have bent their bow to cast down the poor and needy and to slay such as be of upright conduct. Their sword shall enter into their own heart and their bows shall be broken. A little that a righteous man has is better than the riches of many wicked; for the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but the Lord upholds the righteous. The Lord knows the days of the upright and their inheritance shall be for ever. They shall not be ashamed in the evil time, and in the days of famine, they shall be satisfied. But the wicked shall perish and the enemies of the Lord shall be as the fat of lambs. They shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away. The wicked borrows and pays not again, but the righteous shows mercy and gives. For such as are blessed of him shall inherit the earth and they that are cursed of him shall be cut off.

###### 2
The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord and he delights in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholds him with his hand. I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken nor his seed begging bread. He is ever merciful and lends, and his seed is blessed. Depart from evil, and do good, and dwell for ever. For the Lord loves judgment and forsakes not his saints, they are preserved for ever; but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off. The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell therein for ever. The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom and his tongue talks of judgment. The law of his God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide. The wicked watches the righteous and seeks to slay him. The Lord will not leave him in his hand nor condemn him when he is judged.

###### 3
Wait on the Lord and keep his way and he shall exalt you to inherit the land. When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it. I have seen the wicked in great power, spreading himself like a green bay tree. Yet he passed away, and behold, he was not. Yea, I sought him, but he could not be found. Mark the perfect man and behold the upright, for the end of that man is peace. But the transgressors shall be destroyed together. The end of the wicked shall come and they shall be cut off, but the salvation of the righteous is of the Lord. He is their strength in the time of trouble. And the Lord shall help them and deliver them; he shall deliver them from the wicked and save them because they trust in him.