[<< Psalms 117](Psalms%20117)  |  [Psalms 119 >>](Psalms%20119)

### Psalm 118
###### 1
O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, because his mercy endures for ever. Let Israel now say that his mercy endures for ever. Let the house of Aaron now say that his mercy endures for ever. Let them now that fear the Lord say that his mercy endures for ever.

###### 2
I called upon the Lord in distress. The Lord answered me and set me in a large place. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do unto me? The Lord takes my part with them that help me; therefore, I shall see my desire upon them that hate me. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. All nations encompassed me about, but in the name of the Lord will I destroy them. They encompassed me about, yea, they encompassed me about, but in the name of the Lord I will destroy them. They encompassed me about like bees. They are quenched as the fire of thorns, for in the name of the Lord I will destroy them. You have thrust heavily at me, that I might fall, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and song, and is become my salvation. The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. The right hand of the Lord is exalted. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. I shall not die, but live and declare the works of the Lord. The Lord has chastened me severely, but he has not given me over unto death.

###### 3
Open to me the gates of righteousness — I will go into them, and I will praise the Lord — this gate of the Lord into which the righteous shall enter. I will praise you, for you have heard me and have become my salvation. The stone which the builders refused has become the head stone of the corner. This is the Lord’s doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I implore you, O Lord. O Lord I implore you, send now prosperity. Blessed be he that comes in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you out of the house of the Lord. God is the Lord who has shown us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar. You are my God and I will praise you. You are my God, I will exalt you. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures for ever.