[[Psalms 105.md|<< Psalms 105]]  |  [[Psalms 107.md|Psalms 107 >>]]

### Psalm 106
###### 1
Praise the Lord. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures for ever. Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? Who can show forth all his praise? Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that does righteousness at all times. Remember me, O Lord, with the favor of your people. O visit me with your salvation, that I may see the good of your chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance.

###### 2
We have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedly. Our fathers understood not your wonders in Egypt. They remembered not the multitude of your mercies, but provoked you at the sea, at the Red Sea. Nevertheless, he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known. He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up, so he led them through the depths as through the wilderness. And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. And the waters covered their enemies; there was not one of them left. Then they believed his words, they sang his praise.

###### 3
They soon forgot his works. They waited not for his counsel, but lusted exceedingly in the wilderness and tested God in the desert. And he gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul. They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron, the saint of the Lord. The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram, and a fire was kindled in their company. The flame burned up the wicked. They made a calf in Horeb and worshipped the molten image. Thus, they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eats grass. They forgot God their savior, who had done great things in Egypt — wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the Red Sea. Therefore, he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach to turn away his wrath lest he should destroy them. Yea, they despised the pleasant land. They believed not his word, but murmured in their tents and listened not unto the voice of the Lord. Therefore, he lifted up his hand against them to overthrow them in the wilderness, to overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands. They joined themselves also unto Baal-Peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. Thus, they provoked him to anger with their inventions, and the plague broke in upon them. Then Phineas stood up and executed judgment, and so the plague was stopped. And that was counted unto him for righteousness, unto all generations for ever.

###### 4
They angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes, because they provoked his spirit so that he spoke rashly with his lips. They did not destroy the nations concerning whom the Lord commanded them, but were mingled among the heathen and learned their works. And they served their idols, which were a snare unto them. Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils, and shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan; and the land was polluted with blood. Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went whoring with their own inventions. Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance. And he gave them into the hand of the heathen, and they that hated them ruled over them. Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand. Many times did he deliver them, but they provoked him with their counsel and were brought low for their iniquity.

###### 5
Nevertheless, he regarded their affliction when he heard their cry. And he remembered for them his covenant, and spared his people according to the multitude of his mercies. He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives.

###### 6
Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto your holy name and to triumph in your praise. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. And let all the people say, Amen. Praise the Lord.