[<< Acts 5](Acts%205.md)  |  [Acts 7 >>](Acts%207.md)

### Chapter 6
###### 1
And it came to pass as Peter passed throughout all these regions, he came down also to the saints who dwelled at Lydda. And there he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had kept his bed eight years and was sick of the palsy. And Peter said unto him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ makes you whole; arise and make your bed. And he arose immediately. And all that dwelled at Lydda and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord.

###### 2
Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, who (by interpretation) is called Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and alms-giving which she did. And it came to pass in those days that she was sick and died — whom, when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber. And forasmuch as Lydda was near to Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring of him that he would not delay to come to them. Then Peter arose and went with them. When he had come, they brought him into the upper chamber, and all the widows stood by him, weeping and showing the coats and garments which Dorcas made while she was with them. But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled down and prayed, and turning himself to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up. And he gave her his hand and lifted her up, and when he had called the saints and widows, he presented her alive. And it was known throughout all Joppa and many believed in the Lord. And it came to pass that he remained many days in Joppa with one Simon, a tanner.

###### 3
There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of the band called the Italian Band, a devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, who gave much alms to the people and prayed to God always. He saw in a vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day an angel of God coming in to him and saying unto him, Cornelius. And when he looked on him, he was afraid and said, What is it, Lord? And he said unto him, Your prayers and your alms have come up for a memorial before God. And now send men to Joppa and call for one Simon, whose surname is Peter. He lodges with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the seaside; he shall tell you what you ought to do. And when the angel who spoke unto Cornelius had departed, he called two of his household servants and a devout soldier of them that waited on him continually; and when he had declared all these things unto them, he sent them to Joppa.

###### 4
On the next day, as they went on their journey and drew near unto the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth hour. And he became very hungry and would have eaten, but while they made ready, he fell into a trance and saw Heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending unto him as a great sheet, knit at the four corners and let down to the earth, wherein were all manner of four-footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air. And there came a voice to him: Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, Not so Lord, for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean. And the voice spoke unto him again the second time, What God has cleansed, that call not common. This was done three times and the vessel was received up again into Heaven.

###### 5
Now while Peter wondered in himself what this vision which he had seen should mean, behold, the men who were sent from Cornelius had made inquiry for Simon’s house, and stood before the gate, and called and asked whether Simon, who was surnamed Peter, were lodged there. While Peter thought on the vision, the spirit said unto him, Behold, three men seek you. Arise therefore and get yourself down, and go with them, doubting nothing, for I have sent them. Then Peter went down to the men who were sent unto him from Cornelius and said, Behold, I am he whom you seek. What is the cause for which you have come? And they said, Cornelius the centurion, a just man and one that fears God, and of good report among all the nation of the Jews, was warned from God by a holy angel to send for you into his house and to hear words of you. Then he called them in and lodged them. And on the next day, Peter went away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him.

###### 6
And the next day, they entered into Caesarea, and Cornelius waited for them and had called together his kinsmen and near friends. And as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshipped him. But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a man. And as he talked with him, he went in and found many that had come together. And he said unto them, You know how it is an unlawful thing for a man that is a Jew to keep company or come unto one of another nation; but God has showed me that I should not call any man common or unclean. Therefore came I unto you without objection, as soon as I was sent for. I ask therefore, for what intent you have sent for me. And Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting until this hour, and at the ninth hour, I prayed in my house. And behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing and said, Cornelius, your prayer is heard and your alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God. Send therefore to Joppa and call here Simon, whose surname is Peter — he is lodged in the house of one Simon, a tanner by the seaside — who, when he comes, shall speak unto you. Immediately therefore I sent to you, and you have done well that you have come. Now therefore are we all here, present before God, to hear all things that are commanded you of God.

###### 7
Then Peter opened his mouth and said, Truly I perceive that God is no respecter of persons, but in every nation, he that fears him and works righteousness is accepted with him. The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ — he is Lord of all — that word, I say, you know, which was published throughout all Judea, and began from Galilee after the baptism which John preached: how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the holy ghost and with power, who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the Devil, for God was with him. And we are witnesses of all things which he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. Whom they slew and hung on a tree, him God raised up the third day, and showed him openly — not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before of God, even to us who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead. And he commanded us to preach unto the people and to testify that it is he who was ordained of God to be the Judge of quick and dead. To him give all the prophets witness that, through his name, whoever believes in him shall receive remission of sins.

###### 8
While Peter yet spoke these words, the holy ghost fell on all them who heard the word. And they of the circumcision who believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because on the gentiles also was poured out the gift of the holy ghost; for they heard them speak with tongues and magnify God. Then answered Peter, Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized who have received the holy ghost as well as we? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to remain certain days.

###### 9
And the apostles and brethren that were in Judea heard that the gentiles had also received the word of God. And when Peter had come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the circumcision contended with him, saying, You went in to uncircumcised men and did eat with them. But Peter rehearsed the matter from the beginning and expounded it by order unto them, saying, I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision: a certain vessel descend as a great sheet, let down from Heaven by four corners. And it came even to me, upon which, when I had fastened my eyes, I considered, and saw four-footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air. And I heard a voice saying unto me, Arise, Peter, slay and eat. But I said, Not so, Lord, for nothing common or unclean has at any time entered into my mouth. But the voice answered me again from Heaven, What God has cleansed, that call not common. And this was done three times, and all were drawn up again into Heaven. And behold, immediately there were three men already come unto the house where I was, sent from Caesarea unto me. And the spirit bid me go with them, nothing doubting. Moreover, these six brethren accompanied me and we entered into the man’s house, and he showed us how he had seen an angel in his house, who stood and said unto him, Send men to Joppa and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter, who shall tell you words whereby you and all your house shall be saved. And as I began to speak, the holy ghost fell on them, as on us at the beginning. Then I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the holy ghost. Forasmuch then as God gave them the like gift as he did unto us who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, what was I that I could withstand God? When they heard these things, they held their peace and glorified God, saying, Then has God also to the gentiles granted repentance unto life.