[[Leviticus 6|<< Leviticus 6]]  |  [[Leviticus 8|Leviticus 8 >>]]

### Chapter 7
###### 1
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, Speak unto Aaron, and unto his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them, This is the thing which the Lord has commanded, saying: Whatever man there be of the house of Israel that kills an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or that kills it out of the camp, and brings it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer an offering unto the Lord before the tabernacle of the Lord, blood shall be imputed unto that man. He has shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from among his people, to the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices which they offer in the open field, even that they may bring them unto the Lord, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, unto the priest, and offer them for peace offerings unto the Lord. And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and burn the fat for a sweet savor unto the Lord. And they shall no more offer their sacrifices unto devils after whom they have gone whoring. This shall be a statute for ever unto them throughout their generations.

###### 2
And you shall say unto them, Whatever man there be of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn among you that offers a burnt offering or sacrifice, and brings it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation to offer it unto the Lord, even that man shall be cut off from among his people.

###### 3
And whatever man there be of the house of Israel or of the strangers that sojourn among you that eats any manner of blood, I will even set my face against that soul that eats blood and will cut him off from among his people. For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls. For it is the blood that makes an atonement for the soul. Therefore, I said unto the children of Israel, No soul of you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger that sojourns among you eat blood. And whatever man there be of the children of Israel or of the strangers that sojourn among you who hunts and catches any beast or fowl, that may be eaten, he shall even pour out the blood thereof and cover it with dust; for it is the life of all flesh. The blood of it is for the life thereof. Therefore, I said unto the children of Israel, You shall eat the blood of no manner of flesh, for the life of all flesh is the blood thereof. Whoever eats it shall be cut off. And every soul that eats that which died of itself, or that which was torn with beasts, whether it be one of your own country or a stranger, he shall both wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until sunset. Then shall he be clean. But if he wash them not, nor bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity.

###### 4
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel and say unto them, I am the Lord your God. After the doings of the land of Egypt wherein you dwelled shall you not do. And after the doings of the land of Canaan to which I bring you shall you not do, neither shall you walk in their ordinances. You shall do my judgments and keep my ordinances, to walk therein. I am the Lord your God. You shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, which, if a man do, he shall live in them. I am the Lord.