[<< Section 145 - Abraham 2](Section%20145%20-%20Abraham%202.md)  |  [Section 145 - Abraham 4 >>](Section%20145%20-%20Abraham%204.md)

### Chapter 3
###### 1
But I, Abram, and Lot, my brother’s son, prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord appeared unto me and said unto me, Arise and take Lot with you, for I have purposed to take you away out of Haran, and to make of you a minister to bear my name in a strange land which I will give unto your seed after you for an everlasting possession, when they hearken to my voice, for I am the Lord, your God. I dwell in Heaven; the earth is my footstool. I stretch my hand over the sea and it obeys my voice; I cause the wind and the fire to be my chariot; I say to the mountains, Depart hence, and behold, they are taken away by a whirlwind, in an instant, suddenly. My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning. Therefore, my hand shall be over you, and I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you above measure, and make your name great among all nations. And you shall be a blessing unto your seed after you, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations. And I will bless them through your name; for as many as receive this gospel shall be called after your name and shall be accounted your seed, and shall rise up and bless you, as unto their Father. And I will bless them that bless you and curse them that curse you. And in you (that is, in your Priesthood) and in your seed, (that is, your Priesthood) — for I give unto you a promise that this right shall continue in you and in your seed after you (that is to say, the literal seed or the seed of the body) — shall all the families of the earth be blessed, even with the blessings of the gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal.

###### 2
Now, after the Lord had withdrawn from speaking to me and withdrawn his face from me, I said in my heart, Your servant has sought you earnestly, now I have found you. You did send your angel to deliver me from the gods of Elkkener, and I will do well to hearken unto your voice; therefore, let your servant rise up and depart in peace.